Discussion Date: April 6th, 2024
Hi everyone, welcome to my open-ended discussion. All of the messages displayed to you WILL BE available in the #sermon-logs channel. It will be useful if you need to consult any of the questions we discuss at a later time. Anyways, this is what our discussion will entail today: Theological studies of Satanism, LaVeyan Satanism and the existence of moral concepts in Satanism.

Once I present the question, people will be able to provide their answers ONE AT A TIME, in an orderly manner. If you just say your answer out loud, I will frown upon such insolent attitude. Please stand up and ask for permission before saying it. Say "OK" if you understand this.

[QUESTION #1]: How does Satanism conceptualize the notion of "evil" within its theological framework? A simpler version would be to ask "What does Satanism consider to be evil?"

PlotGames (cat) says that, considering how the omnipotent God of monotheism does not make it clear what behavior is considered truly evil or not, as seen in scripture, she says that abrahamic faiths make use of free will as a way of justifying there being evil things, and that evil can be considered a product of our choices, depending on what they are. When she said, "we can choose between good and evil, but what is evil?", it instantly brought up the concept of free will in LaVeyan philosophy into my mind. Because, LaVeyan Satanists believe in the sovereignty of the individual choices and the exercise of personal agency. This can bring us back to the concept of "evil" being a relative concept rather than an absolute or immutable one. For bringing up contents of my last lecture and reconciliating them with this question that arose here, cat gets to have a merit.

According to our Esoteric Educator DerHalbengel, LaVeyan Satanism defines ignorance and closed-mindedness as a hindrance to our growth as individuals. While LaVeyan literature has a big advocacy for individual autonomy, freedom of choice and pursuit of our personal desires, it also advocates for intellectual curiosity and critical thought.

According to Stellabunnylove, things listed in the Nine Satanic Sins can be considered as inherently vile by the CoS, depending on context. Things such as counterproductive pride (listed in the CoS website) are all considered "Satanic Sins", and thus things that hinder our individual growth. Contrary to what a whole lot of people think, Satanism is not about self-deprivation and thinking of ourselves as sinners in the same way that the Abrahamics do. It is instead a way of triggering personal growth through virtues, instead of reading a book about how all of us suck. Great answers brought up by the people who stood up here, amazing job. Next question:

[QUESTION #2]: In what ways does Satanism challenge traditional religious narratives regarding the concept of salvation and damnation? In other words, WHY or HOW does Satanism reject traditional narratives written in the literary works of Abrahamic Faith about Hell and Heaven?

bio110 has told us that Satanism has a focus on our present and how it reflects not just us but the world we reside in. She says that regarding Heaven and Hell with fear only leads to detrimental results. She also says that we should live our lives in the present without fear of an unguaranteed Divine Retribution or Retaliation.

PlotGames tells us about Satanism's emphasis on NOT opposing religion, but raising skepticism and getting people to not take things for granted. It's not a direct opposition to faithful beliefs, but rather a way of questioning them.

DerHal once again tells us about the proper meaning of Satanism, which is a materialistic belief that uses hellish figures as a central concept, rather than a worship of any being. He emphasizes Satanism being the adherence to moral values and the pursuit of personal ambitions, rather than a harmful worship. Here is our next question:

[QUESTION #3]: How does Satanism approach the idea of morality and ethical behavior without a divine authority figure?

ewitscason has enlightened us on how Satanism does not require a divine moral law of the highest order to possess ethical norms. They told us about Satanism's emphasis on taking responsibility for what you do, and as such, contributing to morals throughout time and place.

DerHal tells us about divine retribution being a control mechanism to influence people's consciousness, driving them to rely on holy scripture as a source of moral wisdom. He regards the Abrahamics as a way of saying that you only do good for your own benefit in the eyes of the divinely intelligent God, instead of it being the right thing to do. He also says that a person's conscience can be shaped by their personal experiences, regardless of holy works. This is seen in secular countries like Norway.

Seeing as we have been here for a little bit over 1 hour, I'd like to call it quits for the time being. I'd also like to say that I loved our little discussion, each answer brought a different perspective that seems so different and yet so correlated at once.