Sermon Date: May 25th, 2024
Hello everyone. Thank you so much for attending today's sermon. I welcome you and encourage you to listen to what I have prepared for this, hopefully entertaining and educational, meeting.

Today, I would like to talk about an important topic - individualism - as it holds a vital importance in our daily lives, as Satanists. By taking a quick look at Satanic theory and practice (according to A. S. LaVey - the founder of the Church of Satan) we can deduce that Satanic philosophy revolves mainly around oneself: self-development, self-reliance, self-critique.

To prove the importance of it, I would like to quote a few examples that align with individualism. The last of The Eleven Satanic Rules of the Earth tells us the following: "When walking in open territory, bother no one," indicating the importance of respect for those around us and, therefore, their freedom as well. The first, second, and third rule instruct us not to speak without asking, nor enter another's personal space without proper respect.

One of the satanic sins is the blind following of a herd or lack of perspective. Both suggest we should always think outside the box instead of allowing others to take over our choices.

While we are on the topic of satanic sins, we must not ignore one that can be easily blurred with individualism - solipsism. Solipsism is a philosophical concept that posits the idea that only one's mind is certain to exist. In other words, it suggests that one cannot be certain of the existence of anything beyond their consciousness.

While solipsism can be intellectually stimulating, it also poses significant challenges and limitations. For instance, it can lead to skepticism about the existence of anything beyond one's mind, making it difficult to engage meaningfully with the external world or to establish common ground with other people.

Many fall into the trap of being too prideful of their self-reliance, to the point they blur out the existence of the world around them. When that happens, they often dismiss the importance of the existence of others, of their opinions and knowledge. We must remember that solipsism is one of the most important, if not the most important, satanic sins. We shall always reflect, keep pondering, and keep others' experiences in mind.

My friends, I ask you to always seek wisdom, therefore you must always look for the sources of knowledge that you might find beside you, amongst your community, and even outside of it. Keep your individualism intact, but remember that you can always learn a lot, if not the most, from another human being and their creations.

I am very thankful for listening, I hope you have a nice day/night. Ave Satanas! - from today's sermon's host, Cerberus.