Sermon Date: May 5th, 2024
In the name of Satan and his worthy disciples joined here tonight, we invoke your spirit to guide us all towards the Kingdom of Hell. Where Liberty reigns and Dogma dies. Hear us praise tonight, O’ Lord, for we come to you! In Nomine Dei Nostri Satanas, Luciferi Excelsi. In the Name of Satan, Ruler of the Earth, True God, Almighty and Ineffable, Who hast created man to reflect in Thine own image and likeness, I invite the Forces of Darkness to bestow their infernal power upon me. Open the Gates of Hell to come forth to greet me as your Brother/Sister and friend. Deliver me O Mighty Satan from all past error and delusion, fill me with truth, wisdom and understanding, keep me strong in my faith and service, that I may abide always in Thee with Praise, Honor and Glory be given Thee forever and ever.

Ave, my friends. Welcome to this Black Mass. A sermon for the ages, I assure you. I am Blackbird, Educator, and Scion of the Esoteric Serpentine Order. I deliver to you today not just a sermon, but a story. An allegory, if you will. Today, we discuss what some may consider fundamental to any belief, and by all means, a fundamental aspect of our own. So please, join me as we dive into the great lore of Satanism, and all the philosophies that encompass it.

To begin, I ask you all to gaze upon the symbol that adorns my stand. This symbol is a fundamental representation of Satanism. We call it the Leviathan Cross. A symbol of Satanism as a whole, and all its subservient ideologies. With the symbol now permeating your minds, I offer you a story of one curious individual, an investigator of faith.

And I ask that you withhold judgment—something I would ask at any point, but which is of particular relevance now. We go now to an empty room. A quiet, tranquil place. A place to ponder, a place to seek answers, and a place—above all—to relax. In this place, we find the first of two individuals: the first, we will call The Seeker. In this room lays a symbol of great magnificence, and a bench. Like a gallery, with a single magnum opus adorning its walls. Here, the Seeker ponders the great symbol. He questions its meaning, but as he thinks, he is reminded of its great, atrocious past. He recalls its use as a great justifier of violence and wrong-doing. He grows disquieted. A symbol he found so great, tainted by its unruly past. And so he sits, quietly, in this discomfort. Until the second of our two comes along: the Witness.

The Witness joins him on his bench, and gazes alongside him at this perplexing symbol. For a while, it is quiet. And then, as if by intuition, the Seeker speaks: "Sir, may I ask... what does this symbol mean to you?" Unbeknownst to the Seeker, the Witness is far more than a watcher: he is the Artist which made the symbol. And so the Witness speaks to him, to defend his art, and says: "Well, I suppose it means whatever you like." Dissatisfied with such ambiguity, the Seeker objects: "There must be meaning in its lines, should there not? Is it merely light, a flurry of particles which hit the eyes in such a way?"

The Witness retorts: "It is light, yes. But so too is it darkness, for every painting and its infinite hues must be shaded, else it would be flat and insignificant." "...When you gazed upon it, you recalled it from the collective past. The histories written in stones by the thousands who gazed upon it before you." "...But did you remember to look upon its every line, hue, and shade with your own eyes? Not, if I may, the eyes of your brethren?" And so the Speaker was quiet. He had, as the Witness observed, forgotten to separate himself. And so they sat, for a thousand years more, pondering. Together, yes, but lost among their own thoughts. And on the thousand-and-first, the Seeker* spoke again: "I see it now."

"See what?", replies the Witness. "I see its true meaning," the Seeker recalls. The Witness smiles. "What is it, then?" "Freedom." My friends, this is no allegory. Not too long ago, I was in the position of the Witness, and I had one just like you approach me. A humble searcher of meaning who came to me as I stood before this very symbol. And they proclaimed this simple cross, this Leviathan sigil, was evil. And so I responded, and I direct it now to you all: this symbol is by no means evil. Why? Well, my friends, my brethren, my sisters, I enlighten you to this symbol.

Before it became a symbol for Satanism, this humble cross was popularly used by alchemists to represent Sulfur. Put simply, it was a medieval chemist's shorthand. So why, then, did that man find it evil? To answer that, I bring forward another symbol: the Baphomet. Another popular symbol of Satanism, in its broadest sense. Long before the Satanists used it, in the 1300s, the Templar—Knights—were accused of worshipping it. And so they were ridiculed, and more were accused, until Baphomet had turned from idol to the great symbol of blasphemy. The Freemasons, too, were believed to have worshipped it, though this is merely apocryphal—accusations at best, and lies at worst. So it was through this worship and dialogue that Baphomet became "evil". So too did the Leviathan suffer the same fate.

This symbol is comprised of a couple things: firstly, the symbol of infinity, or the "lemniscate" at its base. From its vertex rises a line, crossed perpendicularly by two shorter lines. And I can offer to you now an explanation of its modern meaning: That the crosses represent balance, and that the infinity symbol represents the eternal nature of things. But I'd be just as right to say that the lines represent the balance between Males and Females—as some have stated before me. My friends, partake in this contradiction. Ask yourselves: what does this symbol mean? This symbol has evolved. So too did the Baphomet. Even the crucifix, the great symbol of Christianity, was merely a piece of wood before the crucifying of Jesus Christ.

All symbols carry meaning. But that meaning is not inherent in the symbol. It is endowed by each and every one of us every time we use it and explain it. Every time we hold the cross and speak unto each other, we create an association. A symbol means as much as we assign it. And through time, and consensus, we imbue it with meaning. In the introduction to the Satanic Bible, LaVey is quoted as saying this: "People need ritual, with symbols such as those you find in baseball games or church services or wars..." "...as vehicles for expending emotions they can't release or even understand on their own."