Sermon Date: May 26th, 2024
Welcome to today's Black Mass, everybody!

Before we begin, I'd like to do something a bit different. I have a question, and everybody will be unmuted for 2-3 minutes to answer. The sermon will resume afterward. Feel free to share as much information as you like: Do you have anyone in your life who just drains your energy, like parents, friends, or a co-worker?

Thank you, everyone! Chat has been closed again, and I appreciate all your answers.

I’m FelineCini, an educator here at Arkism, or the Church of Satan. As educators, our job is to share our knowledge with those interested, as we believe that knowledge is a key piece in understanding one another and the world we live in.

The people you all described in your answers are the subject of today’s sermon: a Satanist’s perspective on what we call psychic vampires. However, it’s worth noting that LaVey’s teachings are not universal in all Satanist circles. Although his teachings are atheistic (meaning they do not involve a God), LaVeyanism involves rules to live by and rituals to practice.

Psychic Vampires, or energy vampires, originate from folklore. They are people who feed off your positive energy to balance out their own negative energy. In The Satanic Bible, psychic vampires are described more specifically as “those who make others feel responsible and even indebted to you without cause.”

Is there a person you often call or visit, even though you really don't want to, because you know you will feel guilty if you don't? Or, do you find yourself constantly doing favors for one who doesn't come forward and ask, but hints?

LaVeyan Satanists are always focusing on improving themselves. As LaVeyan Satanists, we are encouraged to indulge in the 7 cardinal sins in moderation, as long as this doesn’t hurt people around us unnecessarily. LaVey teaches that indulging in the sin of pride means always wanting to be your best self. Therefore, the psychic vampire should be eliminated from the Satanist’s life.

One of the benefits of looking at people through the term “vampire” is that we can see them by how they contribute to your life. This is useful when a person’s vampirism has become normal and accepted in the victim’s life. For example, children of narcissistic parents usually struggle to label their parents as bad people. Seeing people through their actions lets these vulnerable people become more empowered to leave these toxic dynamics.

It’s tempting to excuse a vampire’s behavior if you think they don’t want to hurt you. If you truly believe that a person has hurt you unknowingly, it’s always best to tell them.

It may seem cruel, but a true friend will appreciate being told, as it means your friendship will be stronger as a result. But once they’ve been told how their actions affect you, it’s then their responsibility to change themselves. A person’s mental state never negates their responsibility to treat others fairly. If they don’t change their behavior, then you no longer owe them empathy.

So, you’ve identified your vampire: you’ve told the vampire how their actions affect you and they haven’t changed—or worse, they blew up in your face when you mentioned it. Where do you go from here?

I have another question to ask in relation to this: chat will temporarily open again. Would anybody here consider themselves a people pleaser, always preoccupied with how your actions will affect others?

Thank you again for your answers! Chat will now be reclosed. I ask because it’s often hardest for people pleasers to eliminate psychic vampires. It can be hard for someone who grew up saying “yes” to learn to say “no.” But, being honest with others, and especially yourself, is one of the keys to improving your life.

Eliminating vampires often looks very different depending on who you are. The easiest route is to break all contact with them: again, this may seem cruel, but remember that you’ve already tried to tell them how you feel. You can also create distance between you and the vampire: try to share less of your life with them; consider removing them from your social media and talking to them as little as possible.

LaVey gives a specific example: If a manipulator uses gift-giving as a tool to manipulate you, then treat the gifts as charitable: thank them, and say you appreciate the gesture. When they turn around and demand things of you, play dumb and say that you assumed their previous act was out of hospitality. After all, you should give them the same energy they give you!

At first, the vampire will be furious, but over time, they’ll become bored of your apathy and move on. You should use this time to rebuild your own ego and self-esteem. At first, losing someone you considered a friend may be difficult, which is completely fine to feel! During this time, you should look to other people in your life who can support and uplift you.

Our Discord has a channel called #advice-and-support if anyone wants to talk about their situation, and our community will always be happy to support. Throughout our lives, we will encounter people who have nothing good to add to our lives. As Satanists, we believe that our religion will give us tools to navigate our own lives: after all, the way we interact with the world around us will often decide our own happiness.

Eliminating a psychic vampire may feel “wrong” at first, and may leave you more lonely in the short term. But, allowing yourself to have your energy drained will only hold you back. To be a Satanist is to eliminate these drawbacks and to become your best self.

Thank you for attending everybody, I hope this sermon was able to benefit you in some way. I will be accepting some questions as long as you line up orderly to present them to me.

Ave Satanas!