Sermon Date: May 12th, 2024
In Nomine Dei Nostri Satanas, Luciferi Excelsi.

In the Name of Satan, Ruler of the Earth, True God, Almighty and Ineffable, Who hast created man to reflect in Thine own image and likeness,
I invite the Forces of Darkness to bestow their infernal power upon me.
Open the Gates of Hell to come forth to greet me as your Brother/Sister and friend.
Deliver me O Mighty Satan from all past error and delusion, fill me with truth, wisdom and understanding,
keep me strong in my faith and service, that I may abide always in Thee with Praise, Honor and Glory be given Thee forever and ever.
Ave, everyone! I welcome you all to tonight’s sermon.
My name is VolimKeks, I am an educator and a Scion of the Esoteric Serpentine Order.
During tonight’s gathering we will be exploring the concepts of magic within Satanism.
The concept of magic is crucial in Satanism as it is mentioned in The Eleven Satanic Rules of the Earth.
The Book of Belial in The Satanic Bible also delves into the principles of magic which we will go over later.
To start off, let’s first mention what magic in Satanism is not.
You might think Satanic magic is equivalent to a different concept, Black magic.
Now while Black magic is a concept that exists within Satanism it is defined and practiced drastically differently than that of other more wiccan or more esoteric practices.
Black magic is considered to be occultic, while Satanic magic is not. In fact it is far from it.
Rather, magic in Satanism predominantly revolves around the psychological and symbolic aspects of one's actions within ritual.
It is to be guided by logical thinking and reasonable expectations.
As The seventh Satanic Rule of the Earth states: “Acknowledge the power of magic if you have employed it successfully to obtain your desires.
If you deny the power of magic after having called upon it with success, you will lose all you have obtained.”
Fundamentally, if you change your viewpoint or beliefs by means of a symbolic ritual and logical reasoning,
You yourself have actively engaged in magic and are to embrace the change it brought upon you and your beliefs.
In the case that you deny the changes that you came to by the use of magic you will lose all knowledge acquired.
Now I would like to talk about the Book of Belial within The Satanic Bible.
The Book of Belial talks about magic, its definitions, categories and purpose.
Magic in The Book of Belial is defined as follows:
“Magic is the change in situations or events in accordance with one's will, which would, using normally accepted methods, be unchangeable."
Some may argue that these instructions and procedures are merely scientific principles, albeit using "magical" terminology.
That is until they find an article or a text that has no scientific backing. Which is why explanations are not confined into a single lexicon.
To explain this in a more simpler way, magic can't be fully explained by science, but there have been times when science seemed like magic.
Now, magic in Satanism falls into two separate categories, that being ritual/ceremonial magic, often referred to as greater magic
and non-ritual/manipulative magic, known as lesser magic.
Greater magic usually includes a ritual or a formal ceremony, taking place in an enclosed environment.
That enclosed environment is specifically made for ceremonies and decorated as such.
It is recommended that these rituals are done alone, as the purpose of the enclosed environment is to help a person performing a ritual to concentrate.
It’s the place where we are to intellectually decompress, letting all of our deepest emotions and desires come to light.
All things intellectual are to take place before the ceremony, not during it, as this is an exclusively emotion related act.
On the other hand, lesser magic is the practice of manipulation by means of applied psychology.
As stated in The Satanic Bible, it consists of the “wile and guile obtained through various devices and contrived situations”.
When we use this magic we are capable of creating change or manipulating the situation to our own will.
LaVey wrote that to correctly use lesser magic we need to utilize the following:
Looks, body language, scents, color, patterns, and odor as those are the aspects that help us achieve fascination in the respected person.
"Fascination" and "glamor" itself have origins in the world of magic. "Fascination" comes from the Latin word "fascinare", which means "to cast a spell upon".
Lastly, those who practice Satanic magic, in The Satanic Bible, are referred to as Warlocks for men and Witches for women respectively.
Finally, I shall leave this information to you future Witches and Warlocks, take it as you will, interpret it as you will but do not forget it.
Have a fantastic rest of the night everybody!
Ave Satanas!