Sermon Date: April 11th, 2024
In nomine Dei nostri Satanas Luciferi excelsi! In the name of Satan, the Ruler of the earth, the King of the world, I command the forces of Darkness to bestow their Infernal power upon me! Open wide the gates of Hell and come forth from the abyss to greet me as your brother, sister, and friend! Grant me the indulgences of which I speak! I have taken thy name as a part of myself! I live as the beasts of the field, rejoicing in the fleshly life! I favor the just and curse the rotten! By all the Gods of the Pit, I command that these things of which I speak shall come to pass! Hail Satan! Ave Satanas!

Now with the newcomers spooked, I welcome you all to our sermon and halls this afternoon! Today's sermon is a bit different, and for good reason. We have a bunch of new faces and curious eyes on our halls. So, what better thing to do than to address our most common questions. I highly advise taking notes, and remember that our sermons are archived in our server.

Let us begin:

What is Satanism? Satanism is an atheistic religion codified by Anton LaVey with the founding of the Church of Satan, its early practices, and The Satanic Bible. By extension, these texts have also spawned related concepts and philosophies in relation to the original works of LaVey. Satanism is the first religion to advocate for a total indulgence of natural desires rather than abstinence; it prioritizes self-preservation, earthly success, and happiness. Satanism practices the said philosophy and magic found in the religion to accomplish these goals. So that leads us to the next obvious question:

Why call yourselves Satanists? The term “Satan” far predates the deity or demon known as Satan; the term originates from the Hebrew word “Satanas,” which was used to express adversarial ideals to Christianity. Christianity, and by extension, all Abrahamic faiths and dogmatic religions, enforced unto others. Satanism is a logically built religion that indulges in many practices and lifestyles that culture would label “Satanic.” These lifestyles and practices, which were not often considered righteous or crude by some extent, are what we more often than not harvest. This, of course, has its own limitations, in accordance with our philosophy and practices of mutual respect unto yourself and others. While one could argue something as heinous as murder is "Satanic," let it not be forgotten too that such cruel actions have also been wielded as "Righteous Punishment." And it is these punishments, in accordance with dogma and not the self-preservation of one's own well-being, that we strike down firmly.

Another thing you might have noticed is the usage of the term "Magic." So, do Satanists practice Magic? Witchcraft? Satanism recognizes the uses and benefits of religions and rituals throughout the history of the human race. That being said, Satanism justifies these rituals with a psychological explanation rather than a spiritual one. Satanic Magic, influenced by occultists such as Aleister Crowley and psychologically influenced by people such as Carl Jung, practices psychodrama to influence external or internal psychological and physical effects. This is otherwise found in our daily interactions, most daringly and obviously in Charisma unto others. Satanic Magic can be divided into two sections, Lesser and Greater Magic. Lesser Magic practices simple Manipulation through speech and action while Greater Magic prioritizes greater effects initiated from the ritual chamber. For example, our starting "Invocation to Satan" is an example of Greater Magic, something that manipulates the atmosphere, your own aesthetics, to better suit your commitment and focus. None of it is supernatural nor calling unto literal unholy deities, but rather, it is an invocation, an emotional one, to grab intent from thyself. To make yourself more focused.

You can read more on Satanic Magic in the books of Belial and Leviathan along with The Satanic Rituals. (These books are in reference to chapters inside The Satanic Bible, which you can find online.)

For most of you, this is where our questions end. But to others, I raise another common one: How do I become a Satanist, more so, what makes someone a Satanist? To put it simply, you don't. To quote LaVey, “Satanists are Born not Made.” Not to be taken fully literally, but the essential grasp is that some people are naturally inclined to Satanism and likewise some people are naturally declined to Satanism. We recommend you explore all religions and philosophies to find which one works best for you. If that is Satanism, then we suggest you fully indulge in Satanism. It is heavily recommended that you make sure to research it thoroughly first. And do not feel like you are at any time pressured to identify as a Satanist. There are plenty of examples of people who tried out Satanism for a while but then discovered they weren’t one. A good way to observe if you might be a Satanist is to see how naturally you live by The 11 Satanic Rules of the Earth. Note that this doesn’t essentially mean that if you didn’t live by these in the past you aren’t a Satanist, but if you have a very hard time naturally following them, it's a good indicator you aren't one. Forcing them upon yourself is unnatural and inherently unsatanic.

That is all I have primarily for questions, but we do not end here. If you have specific questions, we'll still be answering them after the hall opens back to the public. If you have a question that we may not have immediate answers to, visit the Church of Satan site to see articles deep-diving on specific practices and beliefs. In the next coming days, we will be discussing the Eleven Satanic Rules of the Earth.

HAIL SATAN! Thus, we conclude today's sermon. Thank you for attending!