Sermon Date: June 8th, 2020
As an educator for this group on a website with many young people, I always try to not proselytize or be predatory about Satanism. If one becomes a Satanist, they should be very careful about doing so, and ensure that they are becoming a Satanist for the “right” reasons. On one hand I willingly educate others about Satanism, but on the other hand, I try to caution and even deter people from calling themselves a Satanist. 
	This is for a variety of reasons. Although all of you are smart and responsible, there are dangers to being a Satanist that one should be aware of and aren’t necessarily in your control. Also, Satanists do not proselytize, meaning we do not want to convert or brainwash people into being Satanists. If Satanists prey on young kids to be Satanists, it makes us no better than the Catholic Church. This is one reason our group’s presence can be potentially dangerous. We must actively be aware of not trying to convert or proselytize, but at the same time educate and fight misconceptions of Satanism. 
	Many groups of Satanism do not have an age limit, like the Satanic Temple. But The Church of Satan does have an age limit: those under 18 can not become members. This doesn’t mean you can’t be a LaVeyan Satanist, but it means you can’t be an official member. 
	About this The Church of Satan says “ This is not meant as a judgment of your maturity; we’ve received letters and e-mails from 14-year-olds who had a distinct, mature grasp of Satanism. But we must be realistic about the world around us…. One reason is that we don’t want to become a haven for the kind of sanctimonious perverts that Christian churches and other “Good Guy Badge” forums (such as Big Brother/Big Sister, Boy Scouts, etc.) often are. There are a lot of sick people out there, and we don’t want our vital young Satanists to become victims of twisted adults who are more interested in contacting young kids than they are in practicing Satanism. Another reason is because your parents or other adults in your life may not understand or might be hostile toward your exploration of this religion. They may try to cause trouble for us, falsely accusing us of any number of things, just because they feel threatened. So, we simply cannot allow anyone under the legal age of consent to join the Church of Satan. “ 
	So the Church of Satan’s reasoning behind this age limit is to protect minors from the world around them; it is not questioning the responsibility of those under 18. However, those under 18 can still be considered to be more impressionable. But again, you can still be a Satanist without joining an organization, and you can always change religions. 
	But if one becomes a Satanist at ANY age, one should consider these outside consequences such as exclusion or discrimination from family or friends. Satanism is very misunderstood and even feared, one must be careful and aware of this. 
	So considering this, what are the “right reasons” for becoming a satanist? I don’t think there’s a definite answer for what the right reasons are, and PLEASE take what I’m saying just as a word of caution and not as objective fact. I have no right to tell you why you can or can’t be a Satanist, I’m not trying to gatekeep. With that being said, 
	You should not become a Satanist solely because you are angry at Christianity or another religion. If you’ve had bad experiences with Christianity or some religion, whether because someone hurt you or whatever, rebelling against who hurt you  by becoming a Satanist should not be your only reason. Often when someone is hurt or angry at someone or something, it may be traumatic and leave one very vulnerable to influence. If you are in this stage, please be careful with what may influence you. 
	Often this anti-christian sentiment and rebellion IS a valid reason many gravitate toward Satanism, but it should not be the ONLY reason or the main reason. As anti-christian as many Satanists are, a Satanist also identifies with Satan as a symbol, or believes in him as a god. This should likely be the main reason one becomes a Satanist--for the symbolic or theistic connection. 
	One should not become a Satanist because they think Satanic imagery is cool. Satanic imagery IS cool, and many Satanists gravitate toward Satanism in part because of the imagery, but again it should not be the main reason. Being a Satanist to be cool, edgy, or having authority or power or this aura of mystery over others is not a good reason. 
	In conclusion I want to caution those who are new to Satanism or interested in Satanism. Please don’t be hasty, becoming a satanist should not be taken lightly. I would strongly recommend reading and studying as much as you cand about various branches of satanism or whatever kind you’re interested in before committing. Education and time to reflect is the best approach to safely become a Satanist, and makes one a better satanist too! A religion so marginalized and misunderstood DEMANDS education and one being well versed in their teachings. So is the case with communism or anarchism or some other less common ideology--if you identify with these, you should be prepared to support them! 
	But there are times when people are immediately drawn to a certain branch of Satanism and say That’s me! This is fine. If you’re going to make a decision and become a Satanist, do so with the awareness that you may change your mind, and that it is OKAY if you change your mind or find something else along the way. You SHOULD explore.  it is...important for you to explore many different religions and philosophies so that you can be reasonably certain that you will have found the one which best suits your nature. Be open-minded and don’t limit your options. Be smart, be vigilant, be patient. 
	Sources: 
	*church of satan website. youth communique and FAQ, respectively.