Sermon Date: May 24th, 2020
Regie Satanas. Ave Satanas. Hail Satan. Good evening. 
	“A man recovers best from his exceptional nature—his intellectuality—by giving his animal instincts a chance.” -Friedrich Nietzsche, Twilight of the Idols 
	What a beautiful quote from a brilliant thinker. Nietzsche’s attitude toward the carnal nature of man sets the mood for our sermon tonight. 
	I am Pastor Louis, head of education and former high priest of this institution. Our message today comes mainly from the philosophy of The Satanic Temple and The Church of Satan, with supporting literature from various other relevant sources. We will cover the goals of this church and what we as a group believe in. 
	As an eclectic Satanist, I am not formally a member of any specific denomination, and as such, I can not represent either The Church of Satan or The Satanic Temple with authority. However, as a scholar who has studied extensively on LaVeyan Satanism, The Satanic Temple’s brand of Satanism, The Sect of the Horned God’s brand of Satanism, The Order of Nine Angles’s brand of Satanism, and The Greater Church of Lucifer’s brand of Satanism, I can assure you with a fair amount of confidence that I understand the concepts which I will be presenting to you today. 
	Let us begin with an invocation from The Satanic Temple. 
	"Let us stand now, unbowed and unfettered by arcane doctrines born of fearful minds in darkened times. Let us embrace the Luciferian impulse to eat of the Tree of Knowledge and dissipate our blissful and comforting delusions of old. Let us demand that individuals be judged for their concrete actions, not their fealty to arbitrary social norms and illusory categorizations. Let us reason our solutions with agnosticism in all things, holding fast only to that which is demonstrably true. Let us stand firm against any and all arbitrary authority that threatens the personal sovereignty of One or All. That which will not bend must break, and that which can be destroyed by truth should never be spared its demise. It is Done. Hail Satan." 
	I am presented with the challenge of defining our group’s purpose and values into a focused set of statements. The difficulty lies in the variety of individuals we harbor with their vast spectrum of beliefs. To define our values as a church might be ludicrous, as we do not support a single branch of Satanism in its entirety, and each individual priest in our outreach speaks from different religious backgrounds. In fact, I would see our group more as an educational community than a church with a specific religious agenda. Our purpose is to provide unbiased education for anyone who seeks knowledge about Satanism within reason. With this in mind, understand that the following values leave some room for interpretation, and many members might not follow the specific codes which I will list, but most Satanic denominations follow similar guidelines and support similar values. 
	Upon being asked what I believe in as a Satanist, I will often refer to Nine Satanic Statements of The Church of Satan before anything else. The Nine Satanic Statements are the first attempt to define Satanism in a modern sense. I will cover the second statement in particular, and cover another way of defining Satanic beliefs in more detail later. 
	Church of Satan founder, Anton LaVey, asserted in the second Satanic statement that “Satan represents vital existence instead of spiritual pipe dreams!” Hence, most Satanists today fall into the category of rational, or atheistic Satanists. Atheistic Satanists do not believe in heaven or *****, nor God, nor Satan, nor demons or other deities. Their purpose is not to be evil or promote harm. They borrow some imagery from other religions, but the connections end at imagery. To modern Satanists, Satan is not the Satan of the Christian Bible, but an independent symbol. 
	LaVey writes in The Satanic Bible that “Life is the great indulgence--death the great abst^n^nce. Therefore, make the most of life--here and now! There is no heaven of glory bright, and no ***** where sinners roast. Here and now is our day of torment! Here and now is our day of joy! Here and now is our opportunity! Choose ye this day, for no redeemer liveth!” One might associate such assertions with existentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, and his great declaration in Being and Nothingness that “man is condemned to be free.” Essentially, with the absence of eternal consequence, man bears the weight of creating his own meaning in life. As Albert Camus would say, “We must imagine Sisyphus happy.” Thus, we may gather that rational Satanists are not “devil-worshipers,” as some would like to believe, though some members of our group follow theistic Satanic philosophies which may stem from hellenistic and eastern traditions rather than deifying the Christian Satan. 
	Values fluctuate from denomination to denomination, but I have found The Satanic Temple’s Seven Tenets of Satanism to be the most useful in describing what Satanists generally believe. The Seven Tenets of Satanism read as follows: 
	“I. One should strive to act with compassion and empathy toward all creatures in accordance with reason. 
	II. The struggle for justice is an ongoing and necessary pursuit that should prevail over laws and institutions. 
	III. One’s body is inviolable, subject to one’s own will alone. 
	IV. The freedoms of others should be respected, including the freedom to offend. To willfully and unjustly encroach upon the freedoms of another is to forgo one's own. 
	V. Beliefs should conform to one's best scientific understanding of the world. One should take care never to distort scientific facts to fit one's beliefs. 
	VI. People are fallible. If one makes a mistake, one should do one's best to rectify it and resolve any harm that might have been caused. 
	VII. Every tenet is a guiding principle designed to inspire nobility in action and thought. The spirit of compassion, wisdom, and justice should always prevail over the written or spoken word.” 
	The tenets should speak for themselves. However, they may lead one to ask, “What distinguishes the Satanist from the humanist?” 
	There are several answers to such questions. The Satanic Temple would answer that “Satanists adhere to the principles of individual sovereignty and rejection of tyrannical authority” as fundamental principles, whereas potential philosophical equivalents such as humanism lack such values as fundamental principles. Furthermore, The Church of Satan explains that “Humanism is not a religion...Satanism has both ceremony and dogma,” pushing it to transcend beyond the bounds of philosophy. 
	I have also observed a number of cases in which a student or newcomer will ask me, “Why Satan?” 
	To which I respond that Satanism associates itself with Satan as a symbol in many ways. Satan comes from a hebrew word translating roughly to “adversary.” Satanists identify with such symbolism in viewing Satan as “the Eternal Rebel in opposition to arbitrary authority” (The Satanic Temple), or even a reactionary movement proposed to separate oneself from the major world religions of today. Many modern religions are based on self-denial and promote values of purity, while “Satan represents indulgence instead of abstinence!” Such an embrace of the flesh and the full human being is often associated with “Satan” figures across different faiths. Satanists, as opposed to followers of white light paths, do not believe in divine command theory, meaning they do not derive moral imperatives from a God, and thus, they are able to follow a similar path to the law of equal liberty of the classical liberals: Harm no one; beyond that, do as you will. 
	As Satanists, we believe that “Satan represents undefiled wisdom instead of hypocritical self-deceit,” which may be the foundational statement upon which we built our church (LaVey). Undefiled wisdom is the type of wisdom that comes through continued rigorous self-examination and moral questioning. 
	To quote an old essay of mine, “Chapter two, verse six of The Book of Satan is perhaps one of the clearest examples of the facilitation of self-evaluation and moral questioning.” It reads as follows: 
	“No creed must be accepted upon authority of a “divine” nature. Religions must  be put to the question. No moral dogma must be taken for granted—no  standard of measurement deified. There is nothing inherently sacred about  moral codes.” 
	In fact (as referenced from my previous sermon), “The Satanic Bible does not even claim itself to be infallible, much unlike the major religious texts of the common era. Most religions today focus on minimizing such critical evaluations [in favor of faith as a “reliable” method of forming beliefs. Discourse and self-evaluation] can lead to dissent and religious doubt. 
	In punishing free thought and discourse, religions shelter religionists, and the sheltered religionist is ill-prepared for the outside perspective. The Satanist does not shelter himself so that he is prepared for discourse, for the strong Satanist knows his enemy.” 
	We will now proceed with the reading of the keys. 
	I understand that I have presented a lot of information, so I will end my lecture here. Please feel free to ask any questions that you may have regarding the speech or our religion after the reading. I covered all of the information very quickly, so I will be happy to provide you with any further clarification you desire. Thank you. 
	The eighth key: 
	“The midday of the first is as the third indulgence made of hyacinthine pillars, in whom the elders are become strong, which I have prepared for mine own justice, saith Satan, whose long continuance shall be as bucklers to Leviathan. How many are there which remain in the glory of the earth, which are, and shall not see death until the house falls and the dragon doth sink? Rejoice!, for the crowns of the temple and the robe of Him that is, was, and shall be crowned are no longer divided! Come forth!, Appear!” 
	As always, remember not to take my word for it. Do your own research. Read about our group on our group wall. Double check my quotes and search for the context surrounding them. You are not cattle. Question, think, study. 
	Shemhamforash. Hail Satan. It is done.