Sermon Date: April 6th, 2024
Hello, everybody. It's once again good seeing such attendance from you people -- it makes my coffee boil. Please do bear in mind that everything that is sent through the 'smsg' command will be documented in #sermon-logs. You may head to that channel in our communications server for future consultations on varied subjects.

Tonight, the topic of our conversation is simply LaVeyan basics of moral & ethical conduct. As it is seen in several accounts every day during our church events or interactions, the church is visited by ill-intended individuals. This is, however, something that we at the CoS leadership and indeed the Esoteric Serpentine Educators, seek to prevent and remedy. Whether it be through action from the protectorate, or civilized discourse. (Even though the first seems to happen more than the latter).

While that is something we felt the need to acknowledge, it is far from being the point of this sermon. Allow me to provide an explanation of what the term 'Satanism' entails, and its correlation, as well as deep ties, with LaVeyan philosophy. Have in mind that, in the exact same way that all of my sermons are hosted, this seeks to provide explanations from fully secular perspectives. In the occasion that I say anything that could be deemed as religiously biased or leaning towards a specific set of religious beliefs, please call me out immediately and I will correct myself. That should be enough rambling -- here are the topics and their text bodies I have compiled:

[1. Definition]:
Satanism is a broad term encompassing various belief systems that either revere or symbolically embrace the figure of Satan. By reverence, we don't mean acts of worship in a vast majority of occasions.

The term had originated from Abrahamic religions, particularly Christianity, where this 'Satan' figure is portrayed as the adversary of God. However, Satanism is a distinct religious movement that emerged around the 20th century, after the establishment of organizations like the Church of Satan and the Satanic Temple (CoS and TST).

[2. Beliefs and traditions]:
While these beliefs we mentioned earlier can vary depending on the specific branch/organization, there are common themes that unite Satanists, these being:
Personal autonomy - The emphasizing of of the importance of individual autonomy rejects the idea of submission to external authorities. This includes not merely religious ones, but societal and governmental as well.
Rationalism - Critical thinking, rationality and a sense of skepticism are all characteristics of Satanism, along with the rejection of dogmatic beliefs in favor of reasoning backed by evidence. The figure of 'Satan' in this context is near always viewed symbolically rather than as a literal deity. It would represent specific qualities (free thinking, pursuit of truth & knowledge, etc.)

[3. Moral Grounds]:
Contrary to what a lot might think, Satanism does not promote immoral or criminal behavior. Next to all Satanists adhere to a set of ethical principles. These entail personal responsibility, empathy and justice. The best and generally most well-known formulation of these ethics is found in Anton LaVey's literary works. Anton LaVey was the founder of the Church of Satan. He outlined his 'moral code' in his work The Satanic Bible, which included things like: The Nine Satanic Statements, the Eleven Satanic Rules of the Earth, and the Nine Satanic Sins. From this, we can reach the educated conclusion that Satanism, while being this belief system that "challenges" religious norms that exist to this day, offers an alternative view on morality as well as human nature. It is often misrepresented and [ironically] demonized, and in spite of such, still seeks to encourage mutual respect regardless of religious background.

So as a HUGE tl dr -- religious pluralism is good, mutual respect and tolerance are also good, and dogmatic organizations are mostly bad due to their manipulative nature remSpin. With that, I'd like to end this sermon and call upon anyone with questions and concerns to make a line in front of the altar. No group picture this time around (From me at least), thanks a lot for attending.
