Recommended tools: See ESO General Ritual Format book, have your sigil of autonomy drawn onto your parchment or paper, something to indulge in (something that was previously forbidden to you, food you enjoy, or something that makes you happy to mindfully enjoy). 
	Celebrant: One’s body is inviolable, and subject to one’s will alone. 
	All: For the liberation of the body is a necessary product of the liberation of the mind. 
	Celebrant: The individual is a sovereign, and as such is free to do all that which he wills to whatever extent he wills without interfering with the same freedom of others. 
	All: To willfully and unjustly encroach upon the freedoms of another is to forgo one’s own. 
	Celebrant: I reaffirm my commitment to my own autonomy. 
	All: I am my own. 
	Celebrant We take this time to indulge in our freedoms as we envision the manifestation of each one in our lives, that we may be mindful of the liberation which we can experience through self-realization: 
	We remain mindful in (celebrant reads goals or requests). 
	Celebrant (pierces and burns parchment, or moves candle over top of it): May this light guide me on the path to true self-ownership. I call forth the spirit of rebellion and autonomy in my sovereign mind so long as the light of Lucifer dwells within it. 
	Celebrant: Hail yourself. Hail Satan!
	(If alone, the celebrant takes this time to engage with their object of mindful indulgence. If a congregation is present, the congregation is temporarily dismissed.) 
	Celebrant returns to altar, rings bell picks up dedicated blade, points to each cardinal direction as he recites the following: 
	Celebrant: Please rise for the benediction. In the name of Satan, the prince of the south, the eternal rebel in opposition to all arbitrary authority; in the name of Lucifer, the prince of the east, the morning star, the bringer of light and wisdom; in the name of Belial, the prince of the north, the will that is the driving force behind the intellect; and in the name of Leviathan, the prince of the west, the essence struggle and carnal instinct from the unexplored depths, we now go forth in the wisdom which we have gained. 
	Proceed to step 14 in ESO General Ritual Format book.