Recommended tools: See ESO General Ritual Format book, have your sigil of compassion drawn onto your parchment or paper. 
	Celebrant: "I strive to act with compassion and empathy toward all creatures in accordance with reason. I embrace the Kantian mandate that one ought to act such that the principle of the action would become a universal law in a just world. To do so is to recognize that all sentient life is alike in its ability to feel the pleasure and pain created by others. I acknowledge that altruism is a natural evolutionary development, compatible with self-preservation, to be savored rather than hidden away. I revoke renewed energy within myself for: 
	(celebrant reads requests or goals) 
	Celebrant (pierces and burns sigil, or moves candle overtop of sigil): "May this light guide me on a path to compassion and empathy. I call forth patient understanding in my sovereign mind so long as the light of Lucifer dwells within it." 
	Celebrant: "Shemhamforash!" 
	All: "Hail Satan!" 
	Celebrant: (reads call to meditation) 
	Call to meditation: "I am seated and silent as I take this time to engage in compassion meditation." 
	Brief instructions (if needed): "My eyes are closed, I am still, and I am aware of the sensations and sentiments of my body in this moment. They are neither good nor bad, but they simply exist. I affirm to myself the mantra of my choice. I may visualize the target of my empathy. If my mind begins to wonder, I return my focus to the breath, and to my mantra. 
	Suggested mantras for compassion meditation (pick one): 
	May you have happiness; 
	May you be free from suffering; 
	May I understand your suffering as my own; 
	May I seek to know you as you are; 
	etc. 
	Celebrant is seated, allows some time to pass. 
	Celebrant (optional): "I now abandon all mantras. My attention returns to the breath. I acknowledge, but do not follow any thoughts or judgments." 
	Celebrant allows more time to pass. 
	Purification bell rings gently. 
	Celebrant picks up dedicated blade, points to each cardinal direction as he recites the following: 
	Celebrant: "Please rise for the benediction. In the name of Satan, the prince of the south, the eternal rebel in opposition to all arbitrary authority; in the name of Lucifer, the prince of the east, the morning star, the bringer of light and wisdom; in the name of Belial, the prince of the north, the will that is the driving force behind the intellect; and in the name of Leviathan, the prince of the west, the essence struggle and carnal instinct from the unexplored depths, we now go forth in the wisdom which we have gained." 
	Proceed to step 15 in ESO General Ritual Format book.