The rituals in this guide are not set in stone. Take from them what you like. These are just how I like to do things. None of my suggested rituals require any supernatural belief, but only aesthetic reverence. The more effort you dedicate to your ritual, the more immersive it will become for you. 
	Recommended tools: Dedicated blade for piercing parchment or paper, bell, music player, appropriate attire (suggested: all black clothing, pentagram necklace), an altar set up to your satisfaction, parchment or paper, incense, candles, gong or small cauldron, silver chalice, image of baphomet, image of relevant sigil 
	General rules for the congregation if present: Participants should be silent unless invited to speak. Participants repeat the words "hail Satan" after the celebrant says "shemhamforash" or "hail Satan". A gong or small ritual cauldron should be rung after every instance of "hail Satan". 
	General procedure: 
	1. The day of the ritual, prepare your mind and body by avoiding greasy, spicy, sweet, or otherwise inflammatory foods. Drink only water or herbal tea, and abstain from indulgent activities. 
	2. Prepare the ritual chamber. If you are inside, block out all outside light sources. If possible, set up your altar and image of baphomet on the wall respective to the cardinal direction of the appropriate crown prince of *****. Draw the appropriate sigil on parchment or paper and place it on your altar. Set up your candles in a way that is pleasing to you. These will be your light source after you begin. 
	3. Before entering your ritual chamber, clear your mind by taking a brief walk outside, address your physical or mental needs that may distract you later on, and engage in walking meditation for a short time. 
	4. Put on your ritual attire (see recommended tools). 
	5. Return to your ritual chamber, light your candles and incense, turn off the lights. 
	6. Approach your altar. 
	7. Ring your bell nine times and visualize the purification of the air. 
	8. Celebrant (ritual leader): "In nomine Dei nostri Satanas Luciferi excelsi! Hail Satan! 
	9. Recite your invocation. I always use The Satanic Temple's invocation as follows: 
	"Let us stand now, unbowed and unfettered by arcane doctrines born of fearful minds in darkened times. Let us embrace the Luciferian impulse to eat of the Tree of Knowledge and dissipate our blissful and comforting delusions of old. Let us demand that individuals be judged for their concrete actions, not their fealty to arbitrary social norms and illusory categorizations. Let us reason our solutions with agnosticism in all things, holding fast only to that which is demonstrably true. Let  stand firm against any and all arbitrary authority that threatens the personal sovereignty of One or All. That which will not bend must break, and that which can be destroyed by truth should never be spared its demise. It is Done. Hail Satan." 
	10. Drink from the chalice (filled with your beverage of choice --I usually fill mine with herbal tea). 
	11. If the congregation is present, inform them that they may be seated. 
	12. (Optional) host sermon or lesson if congregation is present. 
	13. Follow procedure for appropriate ritual (there will be some books in this category which show my procedures for specific rituals). 
	14. Approach altar if you have stepped away. Read the appropriate enochian key or whatever closing lines you see fit. 
	15. Celebrant: "Regie Satanas. Ave Satanas. Hail Satan. It is done!" Strike gong. 
	16. Ring bell nine times