Serpentine Scriptures: Compilation of Texts, Rituals, and Etiquette of the Esoteric Serpentine Order

 Introduction

Founded originally in 2020, the Esoteric Serpentine Order has undergone numerous previous incarnations related to the broader “Satanic Church” group on the ROBLOX website, serving as the primary representative religious branch. The following document is applicable to all members of the current Esoteric Serpentine Order as of April 2024.

Since its inception, the Esoteric Serpentine Order (ESO) has aimed to provide appropriate information and resources regarding Satanism and its broader concepts, such as the Left Hand Path. Beyond libraries, the ESO hosts sermons, rituals, and miscellaneous lectures to offer a more in-depth, hands-on explanation of Satanic beliefs and practices. This document compiles resources and materials for all verified ESO members to utilize for the betterment of the ESO at large.

Hail Satan.

 Membership

To gain Recognized Membership in the Esoteric Serpentine Order, all members must participate in and pass the Serpentine Initiation with documented evidence. The High Priest and Magisters are responsible for approving and documenting the Membership status of all members.

Membership within the ESO is active until the individual formally resigns or retires. After retirement or resignation, membership status and archives are kept for a week before being wiped. Memberships are revoked if an individual is removed from their position by Popular Vote or Authorial Reasoning. During this period, their archive is kept active for up to 14 days in case of legal reasons, after which it is wiped.

Former members who decide to return after retirement or resignation may rejoin without initiation if they have previously been in the ESO for more than 30 days, have contributed to the ESO via sermons, documents, and other useful materials, and have not been fired or terminated from the ESO or related programs. Previously fired or removed individuals, unless the offense was severe, must wait 152 days to regain potential membership into the ESO under recognized appeal of a Magister or above. Those who do not meet the requirements are blacklisted from membership.

 Hierarchy of the Esoteric Serpentine Order

The Esoteric Serpentine Order practices a top-bottom hierarchical structure, emphasizing continuous study and dissemination of truthful information about Satanic practice and culture. Each ESO member, when active in-game or in affiliated servers, is broadly represented with the “Educator” role. Keeping track of roles and their corresponding symbols is a responsibility for all ESO members. The ESO operates primarily on ROBLOX, Discord, and Google-Provided Sources.

Acolyte [No Degree]
New members are automatically considered Acolytes and lack a degree within the order. This stage focuses on shaping new members to better understand the customs, hierarchy, and beliefs of the ESO and to study Satanism at large.

Serpentine Scion [First Degree]
Once an Acolyte is tested and deemed fit, they undergo a ceremony to become a Serpentine Scion, earning their first degree. Their primary purpose is to develop knowledge on Satanic beliefs, philosophy, and related content.

Hell Priest / Priestess [Second Degree]
After five months, a Serpentine Scion may inquire about evaluation into Priesthood. If acceptable, they undergo a ceremony ordaining them as a member of the Second Degree, the Infernal Priesthood, with more responsibilities and moderation perks.

Magister / Magistra [Third Degree]
Handpicked by the High Priest with majority approval by existing Magisters, Magisters are higher-ranking members of the Infernal Priesthood, exceptionally knowledgeable about Satanism and the ESO, and act as extended management.

High Priest / Priestess [Fourth Degree]
The High Priest/ess is the primary manager and figurehead of the ESO, appointed by the Third Degree through a majority referendum overseen by the Infernal Council. They are the primary representative of the ESO in-game and handle internal discussions.

 Sermon/Ritual Etiquette

All recognized and verified ceremonies and rituals can be found in the “Serpentine Rituals and Ceremonies” section. Prayers and practices within it are allowed with approval from a Hell Priest/ess or higher. To submit a prayer, ritual, or ceremony for the Official Handbook, consult the High Priest via DMs. Only Hell Priest/ess and above can perform rituals and ceremonies, while scholars and below need approval from the High Priest/ess and must be monitored by a Hell Priest/ess or higher authority.

 Training Procedures

When hosting a training session, set up a topic beforehand and send out an announcement 15-30 minutes prior. The host and attendees must join a designated voice channel in the ESO section of the primary server. The host must have a microphone, or a Magister can assist. All training must benefit all ranks attending and provide documents or text used for further reading. Lessons should be based on various pieces of literature and theory, not just quotes.

 Serpentine Rituals & Ceremonies

This section is regularly updated and contains rituals, ceremonies, and performative etiquette practiced by the ESO.

Prayers

Invocation of Satan: Primary prayer to open sermons, lectures, etc.
In Nomine Dei Nostri Satanas, Luciferi Excelsi...

Satanic Protection: Prayer directed to Protectorates.
O Mighty Lord Satan, by whom all things are set free...

Compass Prayer: General prayer for ritual.
Praise, Hail Satan! Glory be to Satan the Father of the Earth...

Strength Prayer: General prayer for ritual.
Lord of the Abyss of Hell, I praise and Honour Thee...

Knowledge Prayer: Prayer for ESO Trainings/Meetings.
To thee, O Satan, glory be, and praise...

Rituals and Ceremonies

Mass Prayer: The congregation is silent and seated as Protectorates, a Serpentine Educator, and the High Priest/ess proceed. The High Priest/ess offers a chalice to the Educator, and they invoke a prayer before reciting a passage from any Satanic Scripture. The ceremony concludes with praises and hails.

Serpentine Initiation: The congregation is seated, and the High Priest/ess invokes a prayer. Initiates are called forth and recite the Vows of the Esoteric Serpentine Order. The High Priest/ess signifies allegiance by nicking the initiates' health and concludes the ceremony by hailing the newly initiated members.

 Vows of the Esoteric Serpentine Order

Vow I: I swear to uphold the secrets and knowledge of this Order, both during my service and long after I leave.

Vow II: I swear to align myself with the goals of the Community and the Council, as per the scripture of the Community.

Vow III: I swear to remain refined, wise, and professional both on and off-duty. Indifferent to the personal insults directed at me or my religion.

Vow IV: I swear to always remain a student and to never stop learning. For when we stop learning, we fail to indulge in the greatest riches of life.

Vow V: I swear to teach my knowledge to those who wish to learn, and only to those who want to learn. For when we do not teach, the world around us may turn stagnant.

HAIL SATAN / AVE SATANAS
