The falsity of all philosophical and historical systems is best illustrated by the erroneous interpretation of the dualism of light and
darkness in Oriental and mystical religions. Thus some have
claimed that men, having noticed the regular alternation of day
and night, equated the former with life and the latter with mystery and death, raised light and darkness to the rank of metaphysical principles. This interpretation is natural but, like all
external explications, insufficient. The question of light and
darkness is linked to the question of ecstasy. Their dualism acquires an explanatory value only for one who, successively enslaved by the forces of light and darkness, has known both
obsession and captivity. Ecstasy mingles shadows and sparks in a
weird dance; it weaves a dramatic vision of fugitive glimmers in
mysterious obscurity, playing with all the nuances of light
through total darkness. Nevertheless, this gorgeous display is not
as important as the mere fact that it holds and fascinates you. The
height of ecstasy is the final sensation, in which you feel you are
dying because of all this light and darkness. Especially weird is
the fact that ecstasy wipes out surrounding objects, familiar
forms of the world, until ail that is left is a monumental projection of shadow and light. It is hard to explain how this selection
and purification takes place, why these immaterial shadows hold
such sway over us. Demonism is inherent in any ecstatic exaltation. How can we help attributing an absolute character to light
and darkness when they are all that is left of the world's ecstasy?
The frequency with which ecstasy occurs in Oriental religions, as
well as in other forms of mysticism at all times, proves the rightness of our hypothesis. The absolute is inside oneself, not outside, and ecstasy, this paroxysm of interiority, reveals only inner
shadows and glimmers of light. Next to them, the charm of light
and day fades quickly. Ecstasy partakes of essence to such an extent that it gives an impression of metaphysical hallucination.
Pure essences, grasped through ecstasy, are immaterial, but their
immateriality causes vertigo and obsession from which you cannot free yourself except by converting them into metaphysical
principles.