Sermon Date: January 25th, 2020
Tonight we will be going over one of my favorite pieces
from the great poet Emily Dickinson to bring to life
a lesson selected works in Satanism. 
	Emily Dickinson grew up in a strictly religious household.
She became incredibly reclusive in the course of her life,
and thought on the topic of death often. Her rebellious
nature was often shown in her poetry. She questioned God,
moral authority, and the people in her life. 
	The following poem is one such example of Dickinson's questioning
of accepted cultural norms. I will first give you an uninterrupted
version of the piece, then I will go over each section in more
detail, explaining what value the piece has in terms of
Satanic wisdom. 
	Much Madness is divinest Sense - 
To a discerning Eye - 
Much Sense - the starkest Madness - 
`Tis the Majority 
In this, as All, prevail - 
Assent - and you are sane - 
Demur - you're straightway dangerous - 
And handled with a Chain - 
	Right away we can tell that the piece is of an irregular meter and rhyme scheme.
The capitalization and use of dashes are somewhat unconventional hallmarks of
Dickinson's style. Even in the composition of her pieces, she was a nonconformist.
As we continue to study the piece, note that important words
are often emphasized with capital letters. 
	Let's dissect lines one and two. 
	"Much Madness is divinest Sense - 
To a discerning Eye -" 
	Dickinson immediately points out that things the masses initially reject
can be some of the things that hold the highest truth. 
	This can be true of many ideas, but the most obvious one I can point out
for this community is the philosophy present in Satanism. Satanism is
a doctrine that is not meant for many. Most people will reject it before
they even begin to understand it. Despite the stigma surrounding it,
much of Satanism was founded on concepts of profound wisdom. This wisdom
is only to be interpreted by the "discerning eye," of the discerning
person. 
	"Much Sense - the starkest Madness - 
`Tis the Majority" 
	Lines three and four point again to the indiscretion of the masses.
"Much Sense," she says, is "the starkest Madness" to the majority.
This can be evident in anything from popular religion to the general
lack of self-evaluation or reflection that the everyday person may
tend to exhibit. 
	Political tribalism is one potent example.
An exuberant amount of people cling strongly to the ideas of a
party and only the ideas of that party, despite the fact that
they might not hang on to the same convictions should they
not be attributed to their party. 
	"In this, as All, prevail - 
Assent - and you are sane -" 
	As with everything, you will be awarded if you compromise your
beliefs to conform to those of the masses. This is the
"heaven" presented in white-light religion. This is the positive
motivation to hold on to unfounded dogmas. 
	"Demur - you're straightway dangerous - 
And handled with a Chain -" 
	This is the negative motivation to keep people from questioning
unfounded dogmas. This can be related to the Catholic "*****."
These lines refer to the way societies make views taboo if
they are not commonly held or they contradict views that are
commonly held. 
So what does this piece share in common with Satanism? 
Much Madness is divinest Sense illustrates the hypocrisy of
the masses and the pressure to follow social norms and trends.
Much Madness can be taken as a warning against idly following dogma because it is the popular thing to do. 
In the same way, The Satanic Bible spends much of its time warning 
about idly following and deifying dogmas.
The first instance of this can be found in The Book of Satan. 
"I question all things. As I stand before the festering and varnished
facades of your haughtiest moral dogmas, I write thereon in letters of
blazing scorn: Lo and behold; all this is fraud!" 
On the same point, "No creed must be accepted upon authority of a
"divine" nature. Religions must be put to the question. No moral dogma
must be taken for granted--no standard of measurement deified. There is
nothing inherently sacred about moral codes. Like the wooden idols of
long ago, they are the work of human hands, and what man has made,
man can destroy!" 
Man-made morals are nothing more than man-made. There is nothing wrong
with disagreeing with a social norm, no matter what anybody tells you.
That same norm you are guilted for breaking was created by people just
as fallible as you are. 
The concepts in Dickinson's work can also be found in some of the
tenets of The Satanic Temple.
The second tenet states that "The struggle for justice is an ongoing and necessary pursuit that 
should prevail over laws and institutions." 
Again, no moral code should get in the way of what is true and just. 
The fifth tenet states:

"Beliefs should conform to one's best scientific understanding of 
the world. One should take care never to distort scientific facts to 
fit one's beliefs." 
No matter what the opinion of the masses, who hold much madness to
be divinest sense, and much sense to be the starkest madness, reality is
objective, and should not be molded to fit popular misconceptions. 
Finally, the sixth states:
"People are fallible. If one makes a mistake, one should do one's best to 
rectify it and resolve any harm that might have been caused." 
No matter how many people hold to an idea, if it doesn't make sense to you,
you do not have to buy it. I will remind you that one of the foundational
ideas of Satanism is to question EVERY dogma. 
If you come away with anything tonight, I hope it would be that you should
not feel guilty for believing in something that society has made taboo,
and you should never compromise your feelings or beliefs because other people
tell you that you are wrong. 
From the fierce and eloquent pen of Dickinson, we can take to heart this
truth that truth does not come from social dogmatism, but objective science.
You are allowed to think as you wish, and you are valid.