Sermon Date: Februrary 9th, 2020
In nomine dei nostri satanas luciferi excelsi! 
Gloria Deo, Domino Inferi, et in terra vita hominibus fortibus. Laudamus te, benedicimus te, adoramus te, glorificamus te, gratias agimus tibi propter magnam potentiam tuam: Domine Satanas, Rex Inferus, Imperator omnipotens. 
Good evening, everyone. Before I begin, I would like to make sure that everyone can hear me okay. Is this a good volume? Wonderful.
I am very proud to be here tonight to host our church’s first sermon over voice chat in real time. 
Tonight I bring you a lesson from the words of Anton Szandor LaVey. The topic for this sermon will be the nature of Satanic responsibility. As always, I will be here to answer your questions after the sermon. Write them down for the end. Thank you for your patience and attention tonight. 
I will first bring your attention to a passage fairly early in The Satanic Bible. The chapter is called “The God You Save May Be Yourself.” If you would like to follow along with me for reference, feel free to do so. The chapter begins by referencing man’s innate spiritual need for some kind of God driven by his impoverished ego. Such gods are usually asserted to be above any moral codes and dogmas, as they are the stated basis of such codes in the minds of their followers. In essence, “God can do all the things man is forbidden to do—such as kill people, perform  miracles to gratify his will, control without any apparent responsibility, etc,” in the words of LaVey. 
As Satanists we understand that the gods of white-light religions are simply creations of men who have no more inherent authority in their thoughts than we. We can understand by this that men indirectly worship the men that created their gods, because the religionist worships the ideas of these men. This type of worship is inherently flawed. If god-worship is necessarily the worship of ideas, why then is it not “more sensible to worship a god that [you], [yourself], [have] created, in accordance with [your] own emotional needs?” After all, humans are the ones “that best [represent] the very carnal and physical [beings] that [have] the idea‐power to invent a god in the first place.” 
If you have attended one of my sermons on morality, you may remember that man himself, as another animal with natural inclinations, is constantly warring with morality because it conflicts with many of those inclinations. Man is another creature, just like a god, that is above morality, because he has the power to create it. 
When one realizes these things, he may arrive at the conclusion that man is his own god. 
We have established that man needs something to worship, but “no law states that an externalized god is necessary in order to engage in [the] ritual and ceremony performed in a god’s name.” 
This realization is empowering in many ways. It leads one to the acknowledgement of ego. It leads one to freedom from even the most pervasive moral codes. It leads one to see that he is responsible for and in control of the direction of his own life. 
With this awareness comes responsibility. The Satanist must rid himself of religious self-deceit, and use his knowledge to gain the empowerment that comes with wisdom and intellectual freedom. 
Now is the time to “[escape] from the cacklings and carpings of the righteous, or [stand] proudly in [your] secret places of the earth and [manipulate] the folly‐ridden masses through [your] own  Satanic might, until that day when [you] may come forth in splendor proclaiming ‘I AM A  SATANIST!’” 
As your own god, it is important to take control of yourself as early as you can, so that the masses will “see your strength and learn to respect you.” People help people who help themselves. The Satanic Bible describes several aspects of life that the Satanist must focus on to become fully responsible for helping themselves. The following topics will cover just a few of those things we can begin to examine in our own lives. 
The first topic we will cover is prayer. “The Satanist knows that praying does absolutely no good—in fact, it actually lessens the chance of success, for the devoutly religious too often sit back complacently and pray for a situation which, if they were to do something about it on their own, could be accomplished much [more quickly]!” 
“The Satanist shuns terms such as ‘hope’ and ‘prayer’ as they are indicative of apprehension. If we hope and pray for something to come about, we will not act in a positive way which will make it happen. The Satanist, realizing that anything he gets is of his own doing, takes command of the situation instead of praying to God for it to happen. Positive thinking and positive action add up to positive results. Just as the Satanist does not pray to God for assistance, he does not pray for forgiveness for his wrong doings. In other religions, when one commits a wrong he either prays to God for forgiveness, or confesses to an intermediary and asks him to pray to God for forgiveness for his sins. The Satanist knows that praying does no good, confessing to another human being, like himself, accomplishes even less—and is, furthermore, degrading. When a Satanist commits a wrong, he realizes that it is natural to make a mistake—and if he is truly sorry about what he has done, he will learn from it and take care not to do the same thing again. If he is not honestly sorry about what he has done, and knows he will do the same thing over and over, he has no business confessing and asking forgiveness in the first place. But this is exactly what happens. People confess their sins so that they can clear their consciences and be free to go out and sin again, usually the same sin. and be free to go out and sin again, usually the same sin.” 
In this way, the Satanist is called upon to understand that he must take responsibility both for the things he needs to do and the things he has already done. No god will do anything for you that you are not willing to do yourself. You must be willing to take responsibility for that. 
No god can forgive you for anything that you have done. The Satanist is called to stop guilting himself and seeking forgiveness. To correct a wrong, you must only take responsibility and seek to correct the wrong by a voluntary change in behavior. 
Next we recall that “Satan represents responsibility to the responsible, instead of concern for psychic vampires!” “Psychic vampires are individuals who drain others of their vital energy.” One might call these creatures “social leeches,” as “They fill no useful purpose in our lives, and are neither love objects nor true friends. Yet we feel responsible to the psychic vampire without knowing why.” These are the people who constantly play the role of victim, manipulating others into feeling sorry for them so that they can pass their responsibilities to the true victims, the unenlightened, empathetic individuals who help them.  Today, we may call them covert narcissists. The Satanist is not required to help these people, who prey on the weak while pretending themselves to be weak. In fact, this kind of responsibility shifting alleviates the Satanist of any responsibility to help. Any encouragement for this person would encourage their toxic behavior, both hurting the vampire and the victim. 
The Satanist must learn from the psychic vampire that it is his responsibility to take care of himself rather than passing the buck to others. He must also learn that although it is natural and good to help people, he is not indebted to anyone who would use him for his own personal gain with nothing in return. 
To defend ourselves against the psychic vampire, we must remember the Satanic law of self-preservation. Self-preservation is yet another responsibility of the Satanist. 
From chapter III of The Book of Satan: 
It has been said that you should “Love your enemies and do good to them that hate and use you—is this not the despicable philosophy of the spaniel that rolls upon its back when kicked? Hate your enemies with a whole heart, and if a man smite you on one cheek, SMASH him on the other!; smite him hip and thigh, for self‐preservation is the highest law! He who turns the other cheek is a cowardly dog! Give blow for blow, scorn for scorn, doom for doom—with compound interest liberally added thereunto! Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, aye four‐fold, a hundred‐ fold! Make yourself a Terror to your adversary, and when he goeth his way, he will possess much additional wisdom to ruminate over. Thus shall you make yourself respected in all the walks of life, and your spirit—your immortal spirit—shall live, not in an intangible paradise, but in the brains and sinews of those whose respect you have gained.” 
If I love my enemies, does that not place me at their mercy? And if I allow myself to be tread upon in my love of my enemies, am I not at fault? It is the responsibility of the individual alone to take the necessary precautions to assert himself. “The strongest instinct in every living thing is self‐preservation.” Do not deny your instincts. Your instincts have developed as a result of millions of years of evolutionary cultivation. They are put in place to protect you. Stand up for yourself. Protect yourself! 
Finally, it is the responsibility of the Satanist to question all dogma. We will aim to understand why it is acceptable, and furthermore necessary, to question established dogma. 
Chapter 2 of The Book of Satan provides one of the clearest examples of self-evaluation and moral questioning. It reads as follows: 
"I question all things. As I stand before the festering and varnished
facades of your haughtiest moral dogmas, I write thereon in letters of
blazing scorn: Lo and behold; all this is fraud! " 
“No creed must be accepted upon authority of a “divine” nature. Religions must  be put to the question. No moral dogma must be taken for granted—no  standard of measurement deified. There is nothing inherently sacred about  moral codes. Like the wooden idols of long ago, they are the work of human hands, and what man has made, man can destroy!" 
Yes, you heard it correctly. “There is nothing inherently sacred about moral codes.” Man-made morals are nothing more than man-made. There is nothing wrong with disagreeing with an established norm, no matter what anybody tells you. That same norm you are guilted for breaking was created by people just as fallible as you are. 
The second tenet of The Satanic Temple states: "The struggle for justice is an ongoing and necessary pursuit that 
should prevail over laws and institutions." 
Again, no moral code should get in the way of what is true and just. 
Finally, the sixth states:
"People are fallible. If one makes a mistake, one should do one's best to 
rectify it and resolve any harm that might have been caused." 
No matter how many people hold to an idea, if it doesn't make sense to you,
you do not have to buy it. I will remind you that one of the foundational
ideas of Satanism is to question EVERY dogma. 
At this point you may wonder why all of this questioning and self evaluation is so important. The answer is fairly simple. Without an honest and clear understanding of the world, one is liable to think and do regrettable things. I believe that Socrates said it best when he said that “the unexamined life is not worth living.” Continued responsibility and self-evaluation are the keys to self-deification. 
Many people will tell you that Satanism is a religion of freedom, and that is true, but it is also a religion of responsibility. There is no redeemer watching over you and you must be your own god. In this world that is scarcely fair, you must accept that you have been given what you have been given, and you must work to change what you do not like. Not many good things in life are easy, and that is why the Satanist must be careful to distinguish between deliberate and passive living. Rectify your actions, and learn what is good. Stand up for yourself, because not a lot of other people will. 
Thank you for coming tonight. The floor is now open to questions.