Sermon Date: May, 2020
Heyo! 
	This is a question i wanted to explore myself because i like satan because dark imagery is cool but also i recognize it has its downfalls because its scary. this could have benefits too though.
sometimes i try to make satan seem less scary but still dark. pros and cons to this? what are luciferians doing about this? 
	Satan and Lucifer: positive and negative imagery pros and cons 
	As a Satanist I’ve been thinking about my expression and openness of my satanism and whether I should be conscious of making Satan seem more positive to non-satanists. This is hard for me because I like dark and scary imagery, personally--I think many Satanists do--but I think there would be a lot of benefits for others to see him as not as scary. What are the pros and cons of expressing Satan positively and negatively? Should Satan be scary or not? 
	There are many different versions of Satan throughout all religions. Abrahamic religions like Christianity predictably tend to portray him as scary. Theistic Satanists, though immensely diverse, generally portray Satan more positively. 
	The theistic Joy of Satan Ministries has a positive depiction of satan; their website says that “Satan appears wearing a long white robe identical to what he is shown wearing in the images below. He is the Top Leader of the Nordic Gods of the Empire of Orion. Many of us see him often and have a very close relationship with him. He is beautiful.” The images of Satan provided on their website depict him in white robes with blond hair. 
	Joy of Satan says that “Satanism is not about spooks, goblins, vampires, Halloween monsters or other related entities,” “Satanism is not about "evil,” “Satanism is not a ‘reaction to Christianity,’" and that “Satanism is not about death.” Despite Joy of Satan’s depiction of Satan and these statements, why may some followers of Joy of Satan’s teachings continue to use dark imagery? 
	Another positive depiction of Satan can be found in Luciferianism, which isn’t really about Satan at all, but the original fallen angel, Lucifer. Although they are similar and arguably the same, Lucifer bears a much more positive connotation. His name means “bearer of light” and is thus deliberately portrayed much more positively and kindly than Satan generally is. 
	Atheistic organizations such as The Church of Satan and The Satanic Temple use Satan as a symbolic character. The Church of Satan and the Satanic Temple generally use a scary portrayal of Satan inspired by popular culture and Christian ideas of Satan. They both use theatrical imagery to express their Satanism. 
	The Satanic Temple’s use of Satan as a fallen angel from romantic literature is more positive, however. These romantics depicted Satan as a beautiful figure as well, which can be seen in some art around that period (see Dore Paradise Lost illustrations). 
	Although the Satanic Temple’s depiction of Satan is more positive, the Satanic Temple employs dark imagery and theatrics deliberately for their political pursuits. This may be an advantage to having negative imagery--when in a political context, a scary Satan holds much more weight when being used to expose Christian hypocrisy and theocratic tendencies in the United States. It can be argued that this only fuels Christian antagonism, however. 
	The disadvantage of this is the likelihood of others being afraid or misunderstanding Satanism. Satanists have to deal with this enough, and could use as much help as possible combatting fear and misconception. Unfortunately, many non-christians will probably see Satan (and even Lucifer) as scary or “wrong” no matter how he’s portrayed. 
	But are these negative and positive connotations mutually exclusive? Can they not coexist? If one wants to make a theatrical or political statement, they may use one depiction of Satan. If one wants to explain Satan to their relatives, they may use a more positive depiction. These positive and negative connotations exist in many forms of Satanism. The Satanic Temple’s Satan is a rather charming and rejected fallen angel, yet dark imagery is used for self-expression and in political contexts. Lucifer’s enlightened depiction isn’t scary by any means, yet Luciferians may nonetheless still choose to express themselves darkly. 
	Regardless of how positively or negatively Satan is portrayed, Satanic principles are exceedingly positive across denominations, and so are Satanists themselves. What boils down to how we express Satan is through ourselves. 
	After all, why should I alter my beliefs and symbolism for others? Satanism is my religion, and it’s about me, not those who are closed-minded and choose to remain living in fear, right? 
	Us Satanists know better than anyone the benefits of overcoming fear. Perhaps this is why we often gravitate toward dark imagery: like Satan, we have been excluded, rejected, and feared. We embrace our weirdness. Ave Satanas! 