Sermon Date: May 3rd, 2020
I find myself generally deterred by atheist groups. When a group of atheists gets together, or at least what comes to mind, you know the group is called something like “FreeThought Club” and consists of “disproving” God and debating Christians about why their god isn't real. This doesn’t appeal to me, and is what I would call “fedora syndrome.” My idea of what religion is renders this sort of debate style and mindset pointless and rude. SE 
	This is why The Satanic Temple appealed to me. It’s first tenet is “One should strive to act with compassion and empathy toward all creatures in accordance with reason. For me, The Satanic Temple’s emphasis on compassion and opposition to those excusing prejudice with religion rather than religions themselves as a whole, TST seemed to be a “higher ground” than the stereotypical atheist. 
	Thus I am not anti-christian (or so I’d like to think). I am anti-those who are religious who use their beliefs as an excuse for prejudice. This is common with Christian supremacists in the US who say two men or women can’t marry or a woman can not get an abortion just because it’s “wrong” to their religion. These positions require stronger support than a Christian’s blind faith. 
	Because of these things and the anger or pain we often experience because of Christianity or other monotheisms, there can be a tendency to channel that into very anti-Christian and hateful thinking. 
	This isn’t bad, necessarily, but is something I try to avoid. As a Satanist, I would like to act how I envision an ideal Christian would act: by not shoving their beliefs in others’ faces, being welcoming and understanding and SUPPORTING to others’ beliefs, and seeking to improve on any of these things they may struggle with. I think this is how Satanists and those of all religions should be, and is how I strive to be. 
	Although I too feel anger and annoyance toward ignorant and bigoted Christians, I feel
that compassion is the most effective means of reacting. With compassion, we are able to fight misconceptions about Satanists and show people that we are not as scary as they might think. Not only that, but we may use compassionate techniques of conversation to more effectively educate others and help them apply a reliable way of coming to beliefs. 
	This is the purpose of street epistemology, a conversational tactic that is less confrontational than traditional debate. Street epistemology asks questions to a believer about why they believe what they do, rather than why it might be wrong. 
	This tactic plants seeds of doubt and teaches believers more reliable ways of coming to conclusions. This approach can be more effective than a debate because those involved are in a less confrontational situation, and are questioning rather than defending their beliefs. 
	This is only one example of how we may exercise compassion as Satanists. The practice of compassion helps us as well as others. Be aware, however, that compassion does not equal being passive. This is where the “in accordance with reason” comes in in TST’s first tenet. Satanists can be compassionate and vengeful as well. Compassion is no less natural. The two are not mutually exclusive. The best part is that when a 
compassionate Satanist uses revenge, those who cross them don’t see it coming.