Sermon Date: Februrary 16th, 2020
  Good evening, everyone. Thank you all for coming tonight. It is great to be back with you all after last week’s sermon. 
	Tonight we will examine another literary excerpt from the work of Friedrich Nietzsche in reference to the LaVeyan Satanic philosophy. Our topic of discussion comes from the fourth great error and The “Improvers” of Mankind in Götzen-Dämmerung. I will first discuss the Nietzschian literature, and then move on to its meaning in the context of LaVeyanism. We may cover some difficult topics tonight, so be sure to write down your questions for the end. 
	The fourth great error is that of free-will. Free will is a controversial subject, and I do not intend to discuss the validity of the concept, but the manipulative tactics employed by religious and governing organizations over time which use free-will as a tool to manipulate morality, and thus manipulate the lives of individuals. 
	Free will is a tool equal in danger to morality. Nietzsche called it “the most egregious theological trick that has ever existed.” The danger comes not from the implied freedom of choice, but from the impossible standard moral responsibility that it allows a ruling body to impose on an individual. 
	The concept of free-will in theocracy or religious organizations gives the ruling body “the right to administer punishments” for a breach in its law under the guise of God’s law. To facilitate this right to punishment, “every action had to be regarded as voluntary, and the origin of every action had to be imagined as lying in consciousness.” 
	In reality, man is not necessarily a logical creature as he would like to assume, and the reasoning behind each action does not always lie in the consciousness. 
	To cite Dan Barrett in his second philosophical essay, “Deconstructionist,” “the fact is that our behavior is more determined by our perceptions of others than by any rational process” (Barrett 10). He illustrates this point by citing a 1984 news article from the New York Post, saying that hundreds of passers-by ignored a heroic homeless man lying in a pool of his blood “after saving a Queens woman from a knife-wielding attacker” (Barrett 9). Surely, at least one of these people, should they have been interviewed before the incident, would have said that they would help in some way. 
	This does not entirely eliminate responsibility, as we are free to choose to diverge from the behavior of the masses in our own behavior at any point, but this points out the inherent difficulty in simple rational decisions when influenced by outside factors, despite the insistence of some religious organizations that humanity must always be held accountable for a schism with their morality which they project onto God. 
	By the “notion of ‘a moral order of things,’ [the religionist] still [continues] to pollute the innocence of Becoming with punishment and guilt. Christianity is the metaphysics of the hangman.” 
	Nietzche writes that “no one is responsible for the fact that he exists at all, that he is constituted as he is, and that he happens to be in certain circumstances and in a particular environment.” Whether or not you accept that assertion, which attacks the notion of the church that every action is voluntary, is up to you. Even without this, the requirement that every action is a result of conscious thought has been compromised, and the church or state have no grounds by which they can ethically regulate such morality by argument of free will. 
	In my sermon about morality as the enemy of nature, we discussed how the value of life cannot be absolutely determined a posteriori. In the same way, morals and purpose cannot be absolutely determined a posteriori. 
	What I mean by this is best described as follows: 
	“one belongs to the whole, one is in the whole--there is nothing that could judge, measure, compare, and condemn our existence, for that would mean judging, measuring, comparing, and condemning the whole. But there is nothing outside the whole...the nature of existence may not be traced to a causa prima (or primary cause).” 
	We must deny this impossible responsibility, the responsibility of God’s morality, as “the concept ‘God’ has been the greatest objection to existence hitherto.” This is how we “save the world.” 
	You may recall that both LaVey and Nietzsche call on any who will listen to “take up a stand Beyond Good and Evil,” so to speak. “Cursed are the believers in good and evil,” says LaVey, “for they are frightened by shadows!” 
	We put “the illusion of moral judgement beneath” us by taking such a stand. The consensus of both philosophers seems to be that “there are no such things as moral facts.” 
	What are we to make of this conclusion? Surely, the critical judgement of countless societies cannot be reduced absolutely to the absurd. 
	Thus taken literally, morality must be useless, but “as a sign code, however, it is invaluable: to him at least who knows, it reveals the most valuable facts concerning cultures and inner conditions” of society. 
	For instance, we may learn from the Indian Law of Manu that the elite Hindus at one point held tightly to their value of control. I present to you a short excerpt from our “The ‘Improvers of Mankind.’” 
	“The third edict, for instance (Avadana-Sastra I), which treats ‘of impure vegetables,’ ordains that the only nourishment that the Chandala [(or person who does not follow the caste system)] should be allowed must consist of garlic and onions, as the holy scriptures forbid their being given corn or grain-bearing fruit, water and fire. The same edict declares that the water which they need must be drawn neither out of rivers, wells or ponds, but only out of the ditches leading to swamps and out of holes left by the footprints of animals. They are likewise forbidden to wash either their linen or themselves, since the water which is graciously granted to them must only be used for quenching their thirst. Finally Sudra women are forbidden to assist Chandala women at their confinements, while Chandala women are also forbidden to assist each other at such times.” 
	The result then is a race of people which has been enslaved and condemned to live in filth and disease without assistance from the able. Nietzsche notes that “Manu himself says: ‘the Chandala are the fruit of adultery, incest, and crime.’” This is the result of their being forced to live as animals because of their disadherance to the society’s morals by “free-will.” This is an extreme example of the employment of morality as anti-nature by excuse of free-will. 
	We can take away one central formula: “all means which have been used heretofore with the object of making man moral, were through and through immoral.” 
	A supporting example is that of the tamed animal. “To call the taming of an animal ‘improving’ it, sounds to our ears almost like a joke...It is certainly weakened, it is made less dangerous, and by means of the depressing influence of fear, pain, wounds, and hunger, it is converted to a sick animal. And the same holds good of the tame man who the priest has ‘improved’” through moral manipulation.” The church understood that it could make man weak in this way. The church and the state have teamed up to ruin man in the name of moral improvement. 
	We can consult The Satanic Bible for support when examining such ideas. The ideas that the church has castrated man and used morality as control sound remarkably similar to the ideas of LaVey. 
	There is much time devoted in The Satanic Bible to the questioning of dogma. I am sure that some of you can tell at this point that this is one of my favorite talking points, and you can predict that I will bring up chapter II of “The Book of Satan,” where LaVey says that “No creed must be accepted upon authority of a “divine” nature. Religions must be put to the question.” The aforementioned examples provide warnings for some of the things that may happen when dogma is blindly accepted. I could also point out the holocaust, stalinism in Russia, the crusades, treatment of women under sharia law, ***** conversion camps of the Worldwide Church of God cult in Louisiana, and many more examples. 
	Ignorance leads to control. This is why the Satanist is always encouraged to question morals and understand history and context. Without an understanding of dogmatism and the unfair control it may bring, the individual is helpless to anything, however ridiculous, that a society mandates by federal or social law. 
	“Before none of [their] printed idols do I bend in acquiesce, and he who saith ‘thou shalt’ to me is my mortal foe!” 
	As you prepare to ask questions or leave, please take away with you tonight that it is imperative for each of you to keep a critical mind in this confusing modern world. Do not be fooled by the moralist who sees things in terms of good and evil. If something does not make sense to you, you do not have to believe it. Do not fear any guilt or threats sprung upon you for seeing through manipulative dogma. Do your research, however boring, and have your own opinions. You are not cattle. Question, seek answers, and do not accept something as fact just because someone pressures you to do so. 
	Regie Satanas! Ave Satanas! Hail Satan!