Sermon Date: January 24th, 2020
Good evening, everyone.
I am [name redacted]. I am here tonight to present to you a lesson from the LaVeyan doctrine, and from the masses. 

We will move along quickly, so if you have any questions, be sure to write them down and ask them at the end. 

“From patriotic songs to prayers, Catholics showed up in hoards outside the civic center protesting the black mass.” 

September 23, 2014, The Satanic Temple holds a black mass in Oklahoma city. Only 42 people are there to participate. NBC news describes hundreds of Christian protestors attempting to encroach upon the rights of the 42 to hold their own religious service, which affected none but the people who wished to be involved. 

“For Catholics, it’s the most grievous offence against God you can commit,” says one protestor, in reference to the black mass. 

Ironically, a number of “peace-loving” Christians were arrested during the protest that day for aggressions. Even between different denominations of their religious groups there was conflict. No Satanist was detained. 

These Christians, among other religious and nonreligious groups, were victims of yellow journalism and misinformation on countless accounts dating back to the birth of white-light religion. 

Tonight we will be exploring the sociological reasons behind the Satanic panic, negative media portrayal of Satanism, refutations for such negative sentiments, and predictions for the future based on the changing of cultures and our progress as a religious organization. 
,
	I would like to begin our first topic by asking of the crowd here tonight: How many of you feel that you have been judged or misunderstood for your interest or beliefs in Satanism? 

How many of you feel like you would be judged by someone you know should you mention your beliefs to them? 

Now rhetorically, I must ask myself, “Why do you think that is?” 

To answer the question, I can partially rely on my studies from both the Christian and Satanic scriptures. Of course, Satan in the Christian texts was presented as the adversary, or the opposer to God. That is a simple reason, but I believe that there is something deeper here. 

In The New Inquisitions: Heretic-Hunting and the Intellectual Origins of Modern Totalitarianism, Dr. Arthur Versluis of Michigan University notes that “20th-century totalitarianism was a secular version of an early Christian reaction to heretical (particularly Gnostic) thought.” 

In clarifying this, Dr. Versluis assumes that Christianity has promoted this problem for quite a long period of time. He explains that there is a perfectly natural reason for this, being that “there is a preexisting archetype on which totalitarianism [like the aforementioned heretic-hunting] could draw, an archetype that answered some visceral need within some of humanity.” 

Psychologically speaking, people need scapegoats. This is why, as LaVey always said, “Satan has been the best friend the Church has ever had, as He has kept it in business all these years!” This is the beginning of the sociological reasoning behind the Satanic Panic. 
,
	The massive media backlash against Satanism is still strong, and evident in a range of news sources. The amount of news sources attributing death to Satanic rituals is so great that there is a phrase coined to describe this alleged death: “Satanic ritual abuse.” 

A quick google search brings up all kinds of alleged Satanic killings 

However, modern Satanic literature forbids every one of these heinous acts. 

In fact, the Satanic Bible seems not to condone any physical sacrifice, or even harming another individual at all, except by self defense. 

“Satan represents man as just another animal…” 

“Under no circumstances would a Satanist sacrifice any animal or baby!” 

“Never willfully harm an animal or child.” 

In short, the Satanist does not eat babies or sacrifice humans. Perhaps some abuse has happened in the name of Satan, but it was not an act of real Satanism. Just as some have killed in the name of God, ignoring the Biblical commandment not to kill. Satanic ritual abuse has happened, but it has never and will never be condoned by any serious Satanic organization. 

Other types of media articles present the Satanist as a lover of evil, to which I answer “the Satanist does not pursue evil because the Satanist is not limited by descriptors of deified Christian morals such as the words, ‘good’ and ‘evil.’” Yes, in the words of LaVey, Satan represents all of the so-called sins, but only in the case that they harm no one who does not wish to be involved, else the Satanist would deny his own or another’s “will to life.” Yes, the Christian text presents Satan as the personification of evil, but the Satanist does not base his religion on what the Christian text says. He sees no objective truth in such dogmas. 
,
	The final topic requires more speculation on my part. I believe that the future of Satanism continues to look brighter as society advances. 

As rates of religious practices dramatically drop, the populus becomes more socially liberal, relying less on absolute truth and institutionally authoritarian ideologies. Satanism is gaining a wider cultural acceptance now that the initial backlash has fallen and many modern groups are representing themselves responsibly. 

As the religionist inevitably continues to fall, people will continue to be interested in Satanism. Our religion is recognized by the US government as official. Our resources and views are readily available for online study. 

So long as we present ourselves well, we can clear the stigma around Satanism. That is up to you to do. If you represent us, I urge you to continue to learn what we are about. Too many people claim to be Satanists without ever learning the doctrine. Too many people misrepresent or misunderstand us. 

“Here and now is the age of Satan. Here and now Satan speaks!” We are his voice, the voice of the church. It is our responsibility to know who we are so that we can best represent that voice. 

Thank you for your time. You have been a wonderful crowd. 
I will now be taking questions.