Introduction: 
	Except in a few extraordinary cases, strong paternalism in medicine is unjustified,
Goldman argues. Patients have a right of self-determination, a right of freedom to
make their own choices. Decisions regarding their own futures should be left up to

them because persons are the best judges of their own interests and because self-
determination is valuable for its own sake regardless of its generally positive effects.

This right implies “the right to be told the truth about one’s condition, and the
right to accept or refuse or withdraw from treatment on the basis of adequate
information regarding alternatives, risks and uncertainties.” The faulty premise in
the argument for medical paternalism, says Goldman, is that health and prolonged
life can be assumed to be the top priorities for patients (and so physicians may
decide for patients accordingly). But very few people always prioritize these values
in this way. d

The Refutation of Medical Paternalism by Alan Goldman 

There are two ways to attack an argument in favor
of paternalistic measures (while accepting our criteria 
for justified paternalism). One is to argue that
honoring rather than overriding the right of the
person will not in fact harm him. The other is to
admit that the satisfaction of the person’s right may
harm in some way, but argue that the harm does not
merit exception to the right, all things considered.
The first is principally an empirical, the second a
moral counterargument. 

The latter is not a perfectly clear-cut distinction,
either in general or in application to the question of
paternalism. For one thing, the most inclusive notion
of harm is relative to the values and preferences of the
particular individual. (This point will be important
in the argument to follow.) A person is harmed when
a state of affairs below a certain level on his preference
scale is realized rather than one higher up. Our notion
of harm derives what objectivity it has from two
sources, again one principally empirical and the other
more purely moral. The first is the fact that certain
states of affairs are such that the vast majority of us
would wish to avoid them in almost all conceivable 

contexts: physical injury, hastened death, or depression 
itself for example. It is an empirical question
whether these states of affairs result from certain
courses of conduct, hence, when they are predicted
results, principally an empirical question whether
harm ensues. The second source of a concept of harm
independent of individual differences in subjective
preferences is ideal-regarding: when the development
of an individual capable of freely and creatively formulating
and acting to realize central life projects is
blocked, that person is harmed, whether or not he realizes 
it, and whether or not any of his present desires
are frustrated. 

The first argument against paternalistic interference 
holds that allowing an individual free choice is
not most likely to result in harm taken in its objective 
sense. The second argument is somewhat more
complex. It admits likely harm in the objective
sense—worsened health, depression, or even hastened 
death in the examples we are considering—
but holds that even greater harm to the individual is
likely to ensue from the interference, harm in the
more inclusive sense that takes account of his whole
range of value orderings and the independent value
of his integrity as an individual. In this latter situation 
there is one sense in which the individual is
likely to suffer harm no matter what others do,
since a state of affairs will be realized that he would
wish to avoid, other things being equal, a state of
affairs well below the neutral level in his preference
orderings. But from the point of view of others, they
impose harm only by interfering, since only that
action results in a state of affairs lower on his scale
of preferences than would otherwise be realized.
In this sense harm is a relative notion, first because
it is relative to subjective value orderings, and
second because it is imposed only when a situation
worse than what would otherwise occur is caused.
We appeal to this second more inclusive notion in
the second type of argument against paternalism. 

Empirical Arguments 

Returning to the medical context, other philosophers 
have recently questioned the degree of truth in
the empirical premise that patients are likely to be
harmed when doctors fully inform them. Sissela

Bok, for example, has noted that in general it appears 
to be false that patients do not really want bad

news, cannot accept or understand it, or are harmed
by it. Yet she does not deny that information can
sometimes harm patients, can cause depression,
prolong illness, or even hasten death; and she explicitly 
allows for concealment when this can be
shown in terminal cases. Allen Buchanan questions
the ability of the doctor to make a competent judgment 
on the probability of harm to the patient, a
judgment that would require both psychiatric expertise 
and intimate knowledge of the patient
himself. Doctors are not generally trained to judge
long-term psychological reactions, and even if
they were, they would require detailed psychological 
histories of patients in order to apply this
expertise in particular cases. As medical practices
tend to become more impersonal, certainly a trend
in recent years, such intimate knowledge of patients, 
even on a nontheoretical level, will normally be lacking. 
Physicians would then have to
rely upon loose generalizations, based on prior
impressions of other patients and folklore from
colleagues, in order to predict the effect of information 
on particular patients. 

Buchanan appears to consider this point sufficient 
to refute the argument for paternalism, eschewing 
appeal to patients’ rights. But unless we begin
with a strong presumption of a right of the patient
to the truth, I do not see why the difficulties for
the doctor in judging the effect of information on
the patient recommends a practice of disclosure.
If the decision is to be based upon risk-benefit calculation 
(as it would be without consideration of
rights), then, just as in other decisions regarding
treatment, no matter how difficult to make, it seems
that the doctor should act on his best estimate. The
decision on what to say must be made by him one
way or the other; and without a right-based presumption 
in favor of revealing the truth, its difficulty is
no argument for one outcome rather than the other.
In fact, the difficulty might count against revelation,
since telling the truth is generally more irreversible
than concealment or delay. 

One could, it is true, attempt to make out a case
for full disclosure on strict risk-benefit grounds,
without appeal to rights. As we have seen in earlier
chapters, utilitarians can go to great lengths to show
that their calculations accord with the intuitive recognition 
of particular rights. In the case of lying or
deceiving, they standardly appeal to certain systematic 
disutilities that might be projected, e.g. effects
upon the agent’s trustworthiness and upon the trust
that other people are willing to accord him if his lies
are discovered. In the doctor’s case, he might fear
losing patients or losing the faith of patients who
continue to consult him, if he is caught in lies or deceptions. 
A utilitarian could argue further that, even
in situations in which these disutilities appear not to
figure, this appearance tends to be misleading, and
that potential liars should therefore resist the temp-
tation on this ground. One problem with this argument, 
as pointed out in the chapter on political
ethics, is that it is empirically falsified in many situations.
It is not always so difficult to foretell the utilitarian 
effects of deception, at least no more difficult
than is any other future-looking moral calculation.
In the case of terminally ill patients, for example, by
the time they realize that their doctors have been
deceiving them, they will be in no condition to communicate 
this fact to other patients or potential patients, 
even if such communication were otherwise
commonplace. Thus the doctor has little to fear in
the way of losing patients or patients’ faith from his
policy of disclosure or concealment from the terminally 
ill. He can safely calculate risks and benefits
with little regard for such systematic disutilities.
Again we have little reason to prefer honoring a
right, in this case a right to be told the truth, without 
appealing to the right itself. The only conclusion
that I would draw from the empirical points taken
in themselves is that doctors should perhaps be
better trained in psychology in order to be better
able to judge the effects of disclosure upon patients,
not that they should make a practice of full disclosure 
and of allowing patients full control over decisions 
on treatment. These conclusions we must
reach by a different rights-based route. 

I shall then criticize the argument for paternalistic 
strong role differentiation on the more fundamental 
moral ground. To do so I shall restrict
attention to cases in which there is a definite risk or
probability of eventual harm (in the objective sense)
to the patient’s health from revealing the truth
about his condition to him, or from informing him
of all risks of alternative treatments and allowing
him a fully informed decision. These cases are those
in which the high probability of harm can be supported 
or demonstrated, but in which the patient
asks to know the truth. Such cases are not decided
by the points of Bok or Buchanan, and they are the
crucial ones for the question of strong role differentiation. 
The issue is whether such projected harm is
sufficient to justify concealment. If the patient’s
normal right to self-determination prevails, then
the doctor, in having to honor this right, is acting
within the same moral framework as the rest of us.
If the doctor acquires the authority to decide for the
patient, a normally competent adult, or to withhold
the truth about his own condition from him, then
he has special professional license to override otherwise 
obtaining rights, and his position is strongly
differentiated. 

Before presenting the case against strong role differentiation 
on this basis, I want to dispense quickly
with a possible conceptual objection. One might
claim that the justification of medical paternalism
would not in itself satisfy the criteria for strong role
differentiation as defined. Since paternalism is justified 
as well in other contexts, the exceptions to the
rights in question need not be seen to derive from a
special principle unique to medical ethics, but can
be held simply to instantiate a generally recognized
ground for restricting rights or freedoms. If serious
harm to a person himself generally can be counted
as overriding evidence that the projected action is
contrary to his own true preferences or values, and
if this generally justifies paternalistic interference
or delegation of authority for decisions to others, if,
for example, legislators assume authority to apply
coercive sanctions to behavior on these grounds, then
the authority to be paternalistic would not uniquely
differentiate doctors. 

The above may be true in so far as paternalism is
sometimes justified in other than medical contexts,
but that does not alter the import of the argument
for medical paternalism to our perception of the
doctor’s role. If the argument were sound, the medical 
profession might still be the only one, or one of
only a few, paternalistic in this way. This would differentiate 
medical ethics sufficiently. I argued earlier
that legislators must in fact honor normal moral
rights. While paternalistic legislation is sometimes
justified, as in the requirement that motorcycle riders
wear helmets, such legislation is so relatively small a
part of the legislator’s concerns, and the amount of
coercion justified itself so relatively light, that this
does not alter our perception of the legislator’s general 
moral framework. If the paternalist argument
were sound in relation to doctors, on the other hand,
this would substantially alter the nature of their
practice and our perception of their authority over
certain areas of our lives. We can therefore view the
paternalist argument as expressing the underlying
moral purposes that elevate the Hippocratic principle 
and augment the doctor’s authority to ignore systematically 
rights that would obtain against all but
those in the medical profession. The values expressed
and elevated are viewed by doctors themselves as
central to their role, which again distinguishes this
argument from claims of justified paternalism in
other contexts. Furthermore, viewing the argument
in this way brings out the interesting relations between 
positions of doctors and those in other professions 
and social roles. It brings out that doctors
tend to assume broader moral responsibility for
decisions than laymen, while those in certain other
professions tend to assume less. In any case, while
I shall not in the end view the doctor’s role as
strongly differentiated, I do not want to rely upon
this terminological point, but rather to refute the
argument for overriding patients’ rights to further
the medical goal of optimal treatment. 

The Moral Argument 

In order to refute an argument, we of course need to
refute only one of its premises. The argument for medical 
paternalism, stripped to its barest outline, was: 

1. Disclosure of information to the patient will
sometimes increase the likelihood of depression 
and physical deterioration, or result in
choice of medically inoptimal treatment. 
2. Disclosure of information is therefore sometimes 
likely to be detrimental to the patient’s
health, perhaps even to hasten his death. 
3. Health and prolonged life can be assumed
to have priority among preferences for
patients who place themselves under
physicians’ care. 
4. Worsening health or hastening death can
therefore be assumed to be contrary to
patients’ own true value orderings. 
5. Paternalism is therefore justified: doctors
may sometimes override patients’ prima
facie rights to information about risks and
treatments or about their own conditions
in order to prevent harm to their health. s

The Relativity of Values: Health and Life 
The fundamentally faulty premise in the argument
for paternalistic role differentiation for doctors is
that which assumes that health or prolonged life
must take absolute priority in the patient’s value orderings. 
In order for paternalistic interference to be
justified, a person must be acting irrationally or inconsistently 
with his own long-range preferences.
The value ordering violated by the action to be
prevented must either be known to be that of the
person himself, as in the train example, or else be
uncontroversially that of any rational person, as in
the motorcycle helmet case. But can we assume that
health and prolonged life have top priority in any
rational ordering? If these values could be safely assumed 
to be always overriding for those who seek
medical assistance, then medical expertise would
become paramount in decisions regarding treatment,
and decisions on disclosure would become assimilated 
to those within the treatment context. But in
fact very few of us act according to such an assumed
value ordering. In designing social policy we do not
devote all funds or efforts toward minimizing loss
of life, on the highways or in hospitals for example. 

If our primary goal were always to minimize risk
to health and life, we should spend our entire federal 
budget in health-related areas. Certainly such a
suggestion would be ludicrous. We do not in fact
grant to individuals rights to minimal risk in their
activities or to absolutely optimal health care. From
another perspective, if life itself, rather than life of
a certain quality with autonomy and dignity, were
of ultimate value, then even defensive wars could
never be justified. But when the quality of life and
the autonomy of an entire nation is threatened
from without, defensive war in which many lives are
risked and lost is a rational posture. To paraphrase
Camus, anything worth living for is worth dying for.
To realize or preserve those values that give meaning 
to life is worth the risk of life itself. Such fundamental 
values (and autonomy for individuals is
certainly among them), necessary within a framework 
in which life of a certain quality becomes possible, 
appear to take precedence over the value of
mere biological existence. 

In personal life too we often engage in risky
activities for far less exalted reasons, in fact just
for the pleasure or convenience. We work too hard,
smoke, exercise too little or too much, eat what we
know is bad for us, and continue to do all these
things even when informed of their possibly fatal
effects. To doctors in their roles as doctors all this
may appear irrational, although they no more act
always to preserve their own health than do the rest
of us. If certain risks to life and health are irrational, 
others are not. Once more the quality and
significance of one’s life may take precedence over
maximal longevity. Many people when they are sick
think of nothing above getting better; but this is not
true of all. A person with a heart condition may
decide that important unfinished work or projects
must take priority over increased risk to his health;
and his priority is not uncontroversially irrational.
Since people’s lives derive meaning and fulfillment
from their projects and accomplishments, a person’s
risking a shortened life for one more fulfilled might
well justify actions detrimental to his health. . . . 

To doctors in their roles as professionals whose
ultimate concern is the health or continued lives of
patients, it is natural to elevate these values to ultimate 
prominence. The death of a patient, inevitable
as it is in many cases, may appear as an ultimate
defeat to the medical art, as something to be fought
by any means, even after life has lost all value and
meaning for the patient himself. The argument in the
previous section for assuming this value ordering
was that health, and certainly life, seem to be neces-
sary conditions for the realization of all other goods
or values. But this point, even if true, leaves open the
question of whether health and life are of ultimate, or
indeed any, intrinsic value, or whether they are valu-
able merely as means. It is plausible to maintain that
life itself is not of intrinsic value, since surviving
in an irreversible coma seems no better than death.
It therefore again appears that it is the quality of life
that counts, not simply being alive. Although almost
any quality might be preferable to none, it is not irrational 
to trade off quantity for quality, as in any
other good. 

Even life with physical health and consciousness 
may not be of intrinsic value. Consciousness
and health may not be sufficient in themselves to
make the life worth living, since some states of
consciousness are intrinsically good and others
bad. Furthermore, if a person has nothing before
him but pain and depression, then the instrumental 
worth of being alive may be reversed. And
if prolonging one’s life can be accomplished only
at the expense of incapacitation or ignorance, perhaps 
preventing lifelong projects from being completed, 
then the instrumental value of longer life
again seems overbalanced. It is certainly true that
normally life itself is of utmost value as necessary
for all else of value, and that living longer usually
enables one to complete more projects and plans,
to satisfy more desires and derive more enjoyments. 
But this cannot be assumed in the extreme
circumstances of severe or terminal illness. Ignorance 
of how long one has left may block realization 
of such values, as may treatment with the best
chance for cure, if it also risks incapacitation or
immediate death. 

Nor is avoidance of depression the most important 
consideration in such circumstances, as a
shallow hedonism might assume. Hedonistic theories 
of value, which seek only to produce pleasure
or avoid pain and depression, are easily disproven
by our abhorrence at the prospect of a “brave new
world,” or our unwillingness, were it possible, to be
plugged indefinitely into a “pleasure machine.” The
latter prospect is abhorrent not only from an idealregarding 
viewpoint, but, less obviously, for want-
regarding reasons (for most persons) as well. Most
people would in fact be unwilling to trade important 
freedoms and accomplishments for sensuous
pleasures, or even for the illusion of greater freedoms 
and accomplishments. As many philosophers
have pointed out, while satisfaction of wants may
bring pleasurable sensations, wants are not primarily 
for pleasurable sensations, or even for happiness
more broadly construed, per se. Conversely, the
avoidance of negative feelings or depression is not
uppermost among primary motives. Many people
are willing to endure frustration, suffering, and
even depression in pursuit of accomplishment, or
in order to complete projects once begun. Thus information 
relevant to such matters, such as medical
information about one’s own condition or possible
adverse effects of various treatments, may well be
worth having at the cost of psychological pain or
depression. 

The value of self-determination 
We have so far focused on the inability of the doctor
to assume a particular value ordering for his patient
in which health, the prolonging of life, or the avoidance 
of depression is uppermost. The likelihood of
error in this regard makes it probable that the
doctor will not know the true interests of his patient
as well as the patient himself. He is therefore less
likely than the patient himself to make choices in
accord with that overall interest, and paternalistic
assumption of authority to do so is therefore unjustified. 
There is in addition another decisive consideration 
mentioned earlier, namely the independent
value of self-determination or freedom of choice.
Personal autonomy over important decisions in one’s
life, the ability to attempt to realize one’s own value
ordering, is indeed so important that normally no
amount of other goods, pleasures or avoidance of
personal evils can take precedence. This is why it is
wrong to contract oneself into slavery, and another
reason why pleasure machines do not seem attractive. 
Regarding the latter, even if people were willing
to forego other goods for a life of constant pleasure,
the loss in variety of other values, and in the creativity 
that can generate new sources of value, would be
morally regrettable. The value of self-determination
explains also why there is such a strong burden of
proof upon those who advocate paternalistic measures, 
why they must show that the person would
otherwise act in a way inconsistent with his own
value ordering, that is irrationally. A person’s desires 
are not simply evidence of what is in his interest—they 
have extra weight. 

Especially when decisions are important to the
course of our lives, we are unwilling to relinquish
them to others, even in exchange for a higher probability 
of happiness or less risk of suffering. Even if
it could be proven, for example, that some scientific 
method of matching spouses greatly increased
chances of compatibility and happiness, we would
insist upon retaining our rights over marriage decisions. 
Given the present rate of success in marriages, 
it is probable that we could in fact find some
better method of matching partners in terms of
increasing that success rate. Yet we are willing to
forego increased chances of success in order to
make our own choices, choices that tend to make us
miserable in the long run. The same might be true of
career choices, choices of schools, and others central
to the course of our lives. Our unwillingness to
delegate these crucial decisions to experts or computers,
who might stand a better chance of making
them correctly (in terms of later satisfactions), is not
to be explained simply in terms of our (sometimes
mistaken) assumptions that we know best how to
satisfy our own interests, or that we personally will
choose correctly, even though most other people
do not. If our retaining such authority for ourselves
is not simply irrational, and I do not believe it is,
this can only be because of the great independent
value of self-determination. We value the exercise of
free choice itself in personally important decisions,
no matter what the effects of those decisions upon
other satisfactions. The independent value of self-
determination in decisions of great personal importance 
adds also to our reluctance to relinquish
medical decisions with crucial effects on our lives
to doctors, despite their medical expertise. 

Autonomy or self-determination is independently
valuable, as argued before, first of all because we
value it in itself. But we may again add to this
want-regarding or utilitarian reason a second ideal-
regarding or perfectionist reason. What has value
does so because it is valued by a rational and autonomous 
person. But autonomy itself is necessary
to the development of such valuing individual persons 
or agents. It is therefore not to be sacrificed to
other derivative values. To do so as a rule is to destroy 
the ground for the latter. Rights in general not
only express and protect the central interests of
individuals (the raison d’être usually emphasized
in their exposition); they also express the dignity and
inviolability of individuality itself. For this reason
the most fundamental right is the right to control the
course of one’s life, to make decisions crucial to it,
including decisions in life-or-death medical contexts.
The other side of the independent value of self-
determination from the point of view of the individual 
is the recognition of him by others, including
doctors, as an individual with his own possibly
unique set of values and priorities. His dignity demands 
a right to make personal decisions that express those values.