Sermon Date: April 28th, 2024
Welcome to The Satanic Church and welcome to Black Mass! I am Ms. Tumayenko, your resident educator this afternoon. Today I will be delving into the Nine Satanic Statements. These statements share with the world what Satan represents in Satanism. For Satan is a symbol to those who follow the ideas of LaVey.

“Satan represents indulgence instead of abstinence!” As a Satanist, or a physical being, you should not be forced to abstain from that which brings you happiness. Our life here on Earth is precious and finite. Therefore, it is important to indulge in your desires as long as you are not causing undue harm and influence to others nor yourself. For a life stripped of indulgence and desire is no life at all.

"Satan represents vital existence instead of spiritual pipe dreams!" Our vital existence is of most importance as not only physical beings but emotional ones. One should strive to live a life that is meaningful, purposeful, and fulfilling. Being fully present and engaged in activities that bring joy, growth, and satisfaction. Bringing not only joy and kindness to yourself but those around you. We should not be hindered by dreams of a perfect afterlife but rather live those dreams now so as to not regret our life later. For there is no true promise of a next life.

“Satan represents undefiled wisdom instead of hypocritical self-deceit!” Our goal is to not hold onto false beliefs despite evidence to the contrary. Self-Deception is a Satanist’s worst hindrance in their goal to seek wisdom. One should strive to be a pragmatic being, never relying on static dogma in our ever-changing world. Striving to address issues, make positive change, and experience personal growth are and always will be a core goal for Satanists. For staying stagnant only leaves you in the dust clouds of history.

"Satan represents kindness to those who deserve it instead of love wasted on ingrates!" What do those who are ungrateful for your kindness deserve? They deserve nothing more than to be cast to your wayside and discarded to the ashes. It is important, in this cruel society, that we focus kindness on those deserving of it rather than those who will use it for their own selfish gains. Be weary of bad souls but do not be cold to all. Proper discretion is a valuable skill, vital for a Satanist and a being of reason.

“Satan represents vengeance instead of turning the other cheek!” All people can forgive but not all people deserve forgiveness. Justice is a prevailing pattern in the ideals of Satanism. In a harsh and cruel society, treating those who actively cause harm without mercy is essential. This brings forth the theme of self-preservation which is of utmost importance in Satanism.

“Satan represents responsibility to the responsible instead of concern for psychic vampires!” Personal accountability and ethical leadership are hallmarks of being a Satanist. You should not concern yourself with people who cannot be accountable in their actions nor those who are toxic. These psychic vampires do not care about you and should be none of your concern.

“Satan represents man as just another animal, sometimes better, more often worse than those that walk on all-fours, . . . who, because of his ‘divine spiritual and intellectual development,’ has become the most vicious animal of all!” As Satanists, we must reject the divinity of man. As we are not nor are we products of the divine! We are not above the animals we live among. Our pets are our equals and the animals we eat are our equals. However, due to our intelligence as a species, we have come to the conclusion that we are superior. Unfortunately, as a result, we have become the most detrimental and damaging species in mother Earth’s history making us the most vicious. We must treat our fellow animals with dignity and respect and treat our home with respect, without seeking the cleanliness of the “divine.”

“Satan represents all of the so-called sins, as they all lead to physical, mental, or emotional gratification!” This is the simplest of the Statements. Self-explanatory in nature. Our desires for gratification should not be hindered by the concept of traditional sin! One should not restrain from that which gives one joy. Indulge in sin to your heart's content without hurting another soul or your own.

“Satan has been the best friend the Church has ever had, as He has kept it in business all these years!” Why stand for something when you can stand against something? This is the idea of Satan in the traditional church. Instill fear of eternal suffering into your followers to blindly follow your cause. These are the ideas that have backed the Church for Millennia. We do not need those fears nor to be built upon hate for we are built upon love for ourselves. We stand for your individual liberty to act on your own accord, never to be restricted by unnecessary dogma!

And all of Satan's people say “Ave Satanas!” These are the Nine Statements of the Satanists among you! These are the ideas Satan represents! This is what Satanism represents!

"AVE SATANAS" Thank you for attending, I am Ms. Tumayenko, your educator and resident girlboss. Have a Devilish day! <3"
