Sermon Date: May 19th, 2024
Welcome to The Satanic Church and welcome to Black Mass!

I am VolimKeks, your resident educator this afternoon.

Today we will be delving into the Eleven Satanic Rules of the Earth. They act as rules and guidelines for all LaVeyan Satanists to follow. As these Eleven Rules are the cornerstone of Satanic Morality and practice. This sermon was handcrafted by Ms. Tumayenko and me. So let’s begin, shall we?

1. Do not give opinions or advice unless you are asked. One must not overlook the dangers of divulging too much! Your response to questions must be reasonable. Opinions are always encouraged but over abundance of information can be detrimental. DO NOT provoke others with unwanted opinions or advice. Your personal advice and criticism is to be your own unless asked otherwise.

2. Do not tell your troubles to others unless you are sure they want to hear them. Your struggles are your own. Other people’s struggles are their own. Do not burden others with your struggles when they have struggles of their own. No matter the similarities nor the relatability, you should not divulge unless allowed otherwise. WE ALL struggle and burdening others only makes it more difficult to overcome.

3. When in another’s lair, show him respect or else do not go there. When visiting one’s home, place of worship or business, You shall NOT bring unprovoked attention to yourself. If your intent is to provoke, harass or be a nuisance, DO NOT visit that person’s dwelling. Individuals, Satanist or not, deserve and have the right to dwell in their own habitat peacefully and unprovoked.

4. If a guest in your lair annoys you, treat him cruelly and without mercy. This rule is the same as Rule Three but the roles are reversed. If someone comes into your dwelling, much like this church, to disrupt. Whether it is to provoke an argument or simply be a nuisance, you shall show them out. Do not let those who do not respect your dwelling linger. They do not deserve to be in there and should be treated as such.

5. Do not make advances unless you are given the mating signal. DO NOT make comments, gestures or acts on another person if they do not consent to you. Do not be a pest and a problem to those unwilling of your attention. Consent is vital in all circumstances and is integral to Satanic philosophy. Without consent, we cease to function properly as a society and as individuals.

6. Do not take that which does not belong to you unless it is a burden to the other person and they cry out to be relieved. Theft for the sake of theft is wrong for it deprives an individual of a vital resource they may not have in abundance. However, one who has very little has reason to take from hoarded goods if it means for the sake of self preservation. There is a moral difference between stealing an extra commodity, such as a bean bag chair, and stealing a vital resource, such as food or water, to sustain oneself.

7. Acknowledge the power of magic if you have employed it successfully to obtain your desires. If you deny the power of magic after having called upon it with success, you will lose all you have obtained. We do not refer to magic in the same way Occultism or Wicca does. When we refer to magic, we refer to the psychological and symbolic aspects of one's own actions in ritual. What this rule states is: if we change our viewpoints or beliefs by means of applied psychology or symbolic ritual, we need to acknowledge that change and embrace it. Otherwise we lose what we have learned.

8. Do not complain about anything to which you need not subject yourself. If you make the conscious decision to put your energy to a specific task or goal and it does not work out for you, you can only blame yourself. Do not blame the goal nor the task for your own results. Personal input is the deciding factor in outcomes, positive or negative. If you choose to complain that you don’t get your desired results, it is on you. Many times, YOU are the deciding factor in many outcomes. YOU are the decider of your fate.

9. Do not harm little children. Theatrics aside, do I seriously need to explain this one? No, I don’t. DO NOT HARM CHILDREN UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCE!!!

10. Do not kill non-human animals unless you are attacked or for your food. As Satanists, our survival is vital as well as the preservation of yourself. You shall never hurt another animal for the sake of “sacrifice.” As stated in the Nine Statements, man is just another animal. We must act as such and only kill for survival as is the call of our nature.

11. When walking in open territory, bother no one. If someone bothers you, ask him to stop. If he does not stop, destroy him. In this cruel and closed off society, people will judge you. Just as the people you see come into this church to change us. In this situation you have the right to ask them to stop or distance yourself. However if the person continues to annoy you and bother you, an equal punishment becomes perfectly acceptable against them. If someone insults you, you are in the right to insult them back. If someone tries to fight you and hurt you, you are in the right to fight back. It’s important to note that these are last resort options however It’s only if the person continues with their unacceptable behavior.

These are the Eleven Satanic Rules among you! These are the morals we shall follow! This is what Satanism represents!

Thank you for attending, Have a wonderful rest of your day.

Ave Satanas!
