Sermon Date: April 13th, 2020
  Hi im pale bla bla bla 
	I’m a member of the Svtanic Temple, a branch of atheistic satanism that is very much political. This sermon will very much be from the perspective of this group. 
	Why Satanism is inherently political: 
	There are a lot of misconceptions that people have about satanism, as we know. 
	Being a satanist comes with a lot of baggage (and water makes things wet!).
 Satanism and its many denominations is one of the most misunderstood and outsider religions in all parts of the world. 
	While the majority of the world follows an Abrahamic religion like Christianity, we exist in direct opposition to their beliefs whether we see it as oppositional or not. 
	The key word for tonight is Exist. We exist. 
	And our existence for those in power and those who don’t like us is and always will be political, because we are different. 
	This sermon is not intended to force or shame one into being political, but should at least make one aware that being different, being a Satanist, is inherently political when one’s environment and country hinders our self-expression. We are the minority, we are the “other”. Being a satanist doesn’t just hinder this, it paints a big red target on us. 
	As Satanists, whether we intend to be opposing or adversarial or not, our mere existence is enough to scare those who follow Abrahamic religion. 
	It is enough to scare those who want to maintain the status quo, those in power. 
	They want to keep things the way they are BECAUSE they do not like that we are different and that is why they are scared. 
	Politicians and those in power suppress and exploit those who are different. 
	In the United States this has taken the form of prejudiced laws against LGBT citizens such as not being able to marry who you want, and not being able to donate blood, and others. There is an extensive history of racism and slavery in the United States, and can be argued to still exist today. 
	Recently, there has been a rise in islamophobic and anti-immigration policies on the basis of race as well. 
	Sometimes policies like these are covered in religious excuses. 
	Often people will use religion to discuss anti-LGBT policies, saying same-svx marriage is “unnatural, against god” or something. 
	There is a pattern of this thinking, and it has seeped into US lawmaking for a while. This is directly unconstitutional--it is against the terms the USA was founded on. 
	The First Amendment of the constitution says that “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof…” 
	This means that religion should have no place in lawmaking or government, so the government can not disallow same svx marriage for example just because “God said so.” 
	This type of “theocratic” thinking is dangerous and far too common in the United States and other countries. 
	It is the concept of christian supremacy. Christians have become so common and homogenized that they sometimes adopt this supremacist attitude that disregards other religions. 
	This is especially dangerous to us satanists, because in the eyes of Christians who do not know our beliefs, we are often perceived as evil and in opposition to Christianity. 
	This is largely because of peoples’ misconceptions from the media and from the Svtanic Panic of the 80s and 90s. 
	This is why being a Satanist is inherently political, especially in a government or country that has this theocratic and christian supremacist thinking, like the United States. 
	Those in power who do not like us--whether we are LGBT+, black, brown, pagan, or Satanist--will ultimately try to silence and hurt us. 
	This is evident by the Trump administration and its policies that favor the majority rather than the “other.” 
	It is therefore important that we band together, all satanists, and all of the “others” that those in power seek to destroy. 
	I am not trying to persuade anyone to be political, or incorporate politics into their satanism, 
but I find empowerment in the Church of Satan’s ninth satvnic statement: “Satan represents vengeance instead of turning the other cheek!” 
	 I think we’ve been turning the other cheek for too long, and I for one am feeling vengeful.
Hail thyself, hail the other, hail solidarity, hail Satan.